 Page | 1 ALIGARH MUSLIM UNIVERSITY ( ) ALIGARH MUSLIM UNIVERSITY . / / ADVERTISEMENT NO. 1/2024/NT : .. Dated: 07.11.2024 ONLINE APPLICATIONS are invited from INDIAN NATIONALS (including Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Cardholders under Section 7A of the Citizenship Act, 1955) for recruitment to the following POSTS of UNIVERSITY SCHOOL TEACHERS. The Last date for submission of online Application Forms is 07.12.2024 upto 11:59 P.M. and the last date for submission of the Hard Copy of Online filled Application Forms is 17.12.2024 upto 05:00 P.M. The Hard Copies will not be received after 05:00 P.M. of 17.12.2024. The University will not be responsible for any Postal delays. Therefore, applicants are advised to submit both online and offline forms well within time. POST GRADUATE TEACHERS S.No. Name of the Posts Name of the School No. of Post 1. PGT (Biology) Senior Secondary School (Girls) (01) 2. PGT (Biology) S.H. Senior Secondary School (Boys) (03) 3. PGT (Commerce) Senior Secondary School (Girls) (01) 4. PGT (Commerce) S.H. Senior Secondary School (Boys) (01) 5. PGT (Mathematics) S.H. Senior Secondary School (Boys) (01) 6. PGT (Physics) S.H. Senior Secondary School (Boys) (01) 7. PGT (Physics) STS School (01) Pay Level-8 (Pay Range: 47600 - 151100) Plus Allowances AGE LIMIT: 40 years. No age bar in the case of employees of AMU Schools. Age relaxation as applicable under the Govt. of India Rules. QUALIFICATIONS ESSENTIAL: 1. Two years Integrated Post Graduate M.Sc. Course of Regional College of Education of NCERT in the concerned subject. OR Master Degree from a recognized University with at least 50% marks in aggregate in the following subjects: Post Required subject in qualification PGT (Biology) Botany/Zoology/Life Sciences/Bio-Sciences/Genetics/Biology/ Bio-Technology/Molecular Bio/Plant Physiology provided they have studied Botany and Zoology at Graduation level. PGT (Commerce) Applied/Business Economics shall not be eligible PGT (Mathematics) Mathematics/Applied Mathematics PGT (Physics) Physics/Electronics/Applied Physics/Nuclear Physics 2. B.Ed. or equivalent Degree from recognized University OR B.Ed. Spl.Ed.(VI) (only for posts of Ahmadi School for the Visually Challenged). NOTE :A permanent Teacher working in any AMU managed school not having B.Ed. or equivalent Degree from recognized University may be considered for the post. Such a Tel. : 0571-2700920 : 0571-2700921 Extension: 1148 Email: selectionnt.reg@amu.ac.in Page | 2 candidate if selected has to complete B.Ed. Degree within four years from the date of selection/joining. DESIRABLE: 1. Knowledge of Computer Application. 2. Proficiency in Teaching in English, Hindi and Urdu medium. S.No. Name of the Posts Name of the School No. of Post 8. PGT (Fine Arts) Senior Secondary School (Girls) (01) Pay Level-8 (Pay Range: 47600 - 151100) Plus Allowances AGE LIMIT: 40 years. No age bar in the case of employees of AMU Schools. Age relaxation as applicable under the Govt. of India Rules. QUALIFICATIONS ESSENTIAL: 1. Two years Integrated Post Graduate Course of Regional College of Education of NCERT in the concerned subject; OR M.A. (Fine Arts)/Master of Fine Arts (MFA) from a recognized University with at least 50% marks in aggregate. 2. B.Ed. or equivalent Degree from recognized University OR B.Ed. Spl.Ed.(VI) (only for posts of Ahmadi School for the Visually Challenged). NOTE :A permanent Teacher working in any AMU managed school not having B.Ed. or equivalent Degree from recognized University may be considered for the post. Such a candidate if selected has to complete B.Ed. Degree within four years from the date of selection/joining. DESIRABLE: 1. Knowledge of Computer Application. 2. Proficiency in Teaching in English, Hindi and Urdu medium. TRAINED GRADUATE TEACHERS S.No. Name of the Posts Name of the School No. of Post 9. TGT (Hindi) AMU ABK High School (Girls) (01) 10. TGT (Mathematics) AMU Girls School (01) 11. TGT (Mathematics) STS School (01) 12. TGT (Science) AMU ABK High School (Girls) (01) 13. TGT (Science) RMPS AMU City School (01) 14. TGT (Urdu) AMU Girls School (01) Pay Level-7 (Pay Range: 44900 - 142400) Plus Allowances AGE LIMIT: 35 years. No upper age bar in the case of employees of AMU Schools. Age relaxation as applicable under the Govt. of India Rules. QUALIFICATIONS ESSENTIAL: 1. Four years Integrated Degree Course of Regional College of Education of NCERT in the concerned subject with at least 50% marks in aggregate. OR subjects and in aggregate. The elective subjects and languages in the combination of subjects are as follows: Post Required subject in qualification TGT (Hindi) Hindi as a subject in all the three years TGT (Mathematics) Bachelor Degree in Maths with any two of the following subjects: Physics, Chemistry, Electronics, Computer Science, Statistics, Geology Page | 3 and Geography TGT (Science) Any two of the following : Physics, Botany, Zoology and Chemistry TGT (Urdu) Urdu as a subject in all the three years 2. B.Ed. Degree or equivalent from a recognized University OR B.Ed. Spl.Ed.(VI) (only for posts of Ahmadi School for the Visually Challenged). 3. Qualified in the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET), conducted by CBSE/UPTET* Note :*Relaxation of two years w.e.f. 04.08.2022 is given to all working AMU School Teacher for attaining complete essential qualification in the light of the Office Memo issued vide D.No.(C)/1736 dated 04.08.2022. As per extract from the minutes of Special Meeting of the Executive Council held on 30.07.2024 under Item No.04, the house approved to grant one-time final relaxation for one year for acquiring UPTET/CTET. DESIRABLE: 1. Working knowledge of Computer Application. 2. Proficiency in Teaching in English, Hindi and Urdu languages. PRIMARY TEACHERS S.No. Name of the Posts Name of the School No. of Post 15. Primary Teacher AMU Girls School (02) 16. Primary Teacher AMU ABK High School (Girls) (02) 17. Primary Teacher AMU ABK High School (Boys) (01) 18. Primary Teacher AMU City Girls High School (01) Pay Level-6 (Pay Range: 35400 - 112400) Plus Allowances AGE LIMIT: Upper age limit 30 years and no age bar in the case of working employees of the University Schools. Age relaxation as applicable under the Govt. of India Rules. QUALIFICATIONS ESSENTIAL: 1. Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with atleast 50% marks and 2 years Diploma in Elementary Education. OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with atleast 50% marks and 4 years Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.El.Ed.) OR Graduation with atleast 50% marks and Bachelor of Education. 2. Qualified in the Central Teacher Eligibility Test conducted by CBSE (CTET/UPTET)* Note :*Relaxation of two years w.e.f. 04.08.2022 is given to all working AMU School Teacher for attaining complete essential qualification in the light of the Office Memo issued vide D.No.(C)/1736 dated 04.08.2022. As per extract from the minutes of Special Meeting of the Executive Council held on 30.07.2024 under Item No.04, the house approved to grant one-time final relaxation for one year for acquiring UPTET/CTET. DESIRABLE: 1. Knowledge of Computer Application. 2. Competence to teach through Hindi, Urdu, English media. S.No. Name of the Posts Name of the School No. of Post 19. Primary Teacher (Arts) AMU ABK High School (Boys) (01) 20. Primary Teacher (Arts) AMU ABK High School (Girls) (01) Pay Level-6 (Pay Range: 35400 - 112400) Plus Allowances Page | 4 AGE LIMIT: Upper age limit 30 years and no age bar in the case of working employees of the University Schools. Age relaxation as applicable under the Govt. of India Rules. QUALIFICATIONS ESSENTIAL: Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) (with Arts as a subject) with atleast 50% marks and 2 years Diploma in Elementary Education. OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) (with Arts as a subject) with atleast 50% marks and 4 years Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.E.Ed.) OR OR drawing and Painting/Sculpture/Graphic Art. OR B.A. (Fine Arts) with minimum one year teaching experience/Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) DESIRABLE: 1. Proficiency in Teaching in English, Hindi and Urdu languages. NOTE : Those who have applied earlier for the post of PRT (Arts) in the AMU ABK High School (Boys and Girls) at S.No.85 and 86 in respect to the Advertisement No.1/2023/NT dated 04.02.2023 need not apply again for the posts as mentioned at S.No. 19 and 20 above. AGE/QUALIFICATIONS RELAXATION FOR THE POSTS OF PGTs/TGTs AND PRIMARY TEACHERS ONLY 1. Relaxation of upper age limit will be as under : No upper age bar in case of employee of AMU Schools. Upto a maximum of 5 years in case of SC/ST candidate. Upto a maximum of 3 years in case of OBC candidate. Upto a maximum of 5 years for persons who had ordinary been domiciled in the state of J&K during 01.01.80 to 31.12.89. Upto a maximum of 10 years in case of SC/ST candidate 8 Years of OBC candidates serving as Govt. employee in accordance with the Govt. of India instructions. An applicant claiming age relaxation under this Para should produce a certificate from his/her employer to the effect that he/she is a Govt. servant as on the date of advertisement. Upto a maximum of 10 years in case of Persons with Disability Categories. Upto a maximum of 10 years for women candidate including SC/ST/OBC candidate. Age relaxation for Ex Serviceman will be given as per Govt. of India Rules. 2. Relaxation in Qualification for working candidates of AMU Schools will be given as per AMU Rules. IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS: 1. The Application Forms for the above advertised Posts is to be filled ONLY in the ONLINE MODE at the Careers Portal of the University https://careers.amuonline.ac.in 2. Separate Application Forms are to be filled for each Post detailed under a different Serial Number of the Advertisement. 3. The Processing Fee for each Application Form is Rs. 500/- and is to be paid only in the ONLINE MODE at the Careers Portal of the University. 4. PwD candidates are exempted from payment of prescribed Processing Fee, in case they upload an Authentic Certificate of Disability on the Prescribed Proforma with the Application Form or by a Competent Authority under the Right of Persons with Disability Act and Rules (as amended from time to time). 5. Application fee once received shall not be refunded. 6. Applicants must follow all the instructions as given in the Advertisement and the User Manual available on the Careers Portal of the University. The applicants shall be solely responsible for ******************** Page | 5 reading all the instructions and filling up the form accordingly. The University shall in no way, be responsible for any error/omission/commission/suppression of relevant information by the applicant knowingly/unknowingly overtly/covertly while filling up the application form and uploading the documents required therein. 7. After successful submission of the online Application Form, the applicant must: Take the Printout of the PDF file of the Application Form on A-4 Size Paper. Append his/her signature and paste front facing recent photograph at the designated place on the Application Form. The self-attested copies of the following documents are mandatory to be enclosed by the candidates with the Employment Application Form : (i) High School Marksheets alongwith its Certificate from a recognized Board. (ii) Intermediate Marksheet alongwith its Certificate from a recognized Board. (iii) Graduation Marksheet alongwith its Degree from a recognized University. (iv) Post Graduation Marksheet alongwith its Degree from a recognized University. (v) Any other documents/Certificate as required under the Qualification. (vi) The Experience Certificate mentioned therein the date of appointment, period/duration of appointment and Scale of Pay/Pay Band and Grade Pay/Pay Level as the case may be, should be issued by the Registrar of the concerned University (General Manager, in case of Industry). Certificate issued by any other authority (i.e. Principal/Director/Head of Department/Dean etc.) shall not be considered. In case the above mentioned Post(s) are not available in the Organization then alongwith the above details it should be declared by the person issuing the Certificate that "He/She is authorized to issue the Experience Certificate for the said Post/Appointment" NOTE : For Madarsa background applicants certificate equivalent to High School, Intermediate or Graduation etc. will be considered if the same has been obtained from Madaris/Institutions recognized by the University. In case, the self-attested copies of aforesaid documents are not enclosed with the Employment Application Form will be summarily rejected. Candidates are advised to re-check their documents whether the same have been self-attested or not, before submitting the Application Forms. Candidates must super-scribe on the top-left side of the cover, the Post applied for, Advertisement Number and its date. Send the Application Form by Post, complete in all respect to the following address : SELECTION COMMITTEE SECTION (NON-TEACHING), ALIGARH 202002 (UTTAR PRADESH) INDIA 8. Working candidates should apply through PROPER CHANNEL and are required to enclose the EXPERIENCE & NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATES from their Competent Authority in their Application Forms. 9. Working candidates who do not apply through PROPER CHANNEL will have to bring the from the Competent Authority at the time of Interview, if shortlisted, failing which the candidates may not be allowed to appear in the Interview. 10. The applicants are required to fill up all the relevant Columns of Application Forms. The incomplete Application Forms will not be entertained and shall be rejected. 11. Application Form received late or without supporting necessary documents shall be rejected. 12. The University will not be responsible for late receipt/non-receipt of the Application Form. 13. The request for including any document(s)/information in the Application Form after the last date of submission of Application Forms shall not be entertained. Page | 6 14. Qualifications, experience, age, other eligibility conditions, etc. will be reckoned as on the last date of submission of Application Form. 15. Higher initial start may be given to the candidates possessing exceptional qualifications and experience. 16. It is not obligatory on the part of the University to call for Interview, as the case may be, to every candidate who possesses the essential qualifications and no representation in this regard will be entertained from any candidate. 17. The candidates will be solely responsible in case the submitted documents/certificates are found fake/forged/incorrect/fabricated/falsified at any point of time. In such situation, the action will be taken as per the Rules and Regulations of the University. If found guilty of such practice, his/her candidature shall be liable to be cancelled at any stage of recruitment/at any time during the tenure of service and appropriate legal action may be initiated. 18. The University reserves the right to verify the recognition of Hospitals/Institutes/ Universities/Colleges/Schools/Boards etc. at any point time. During the verification if it was found that the Hospital/Institute/Universities/Colleges/Schools/Boards etc. were not recognized when the Experience/ Qualifications were acquired by the candidates the action will be taken as per the Rules and Regulations of the University. 19. The University reserves the right to alter/insert and/or make any corrections/additions in the advertisement, or to cancel the advertisement altogether (either in full or a part thereof), without assigning any reason. 20. In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of advertisement/scrutiny/selection, which may be detected at any stage, even after the issue of Interview letter, Intimation Letter and Appointment Letter, the University reserves the right to modify/withdraw the same and if required cancel the selection process altogether. In case of any dispute arising out of such a situation the decision of University shall be final and binding on the applicant(s). 21. The University reserves right to hold/not to hold the Selection Committee for any or all of the Post(s) without giving any reason. 22. The Notices/Circulars/Addendum/Corrigendum in the advertisement and other information will be uploaded on the University websites : www.amuregistrar.com and Selection Committee (Non Teaching Section) | AMU. The candidates are required to visit the aforesaid websites regularly. 23. Canvassing, in any form or on behalf of the candidate, will lead to disqualification. 24. candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe/Other Backward Class (Non-Creamy Layer) for the purpose of eligibility and assessing Good Academic Record for direct recruitment and the relaxation of 5% to the categories mentioned above are permissible, based only on the qualifying marks without including any grace mark procedures. 25. Relevant grade which is regarded as equivalent of 55% where the grading system is followed by recognized University shall also be considered. 26. A relaxation of 5% may be provided from 55% to 50% of the marks to the Ph.D. degree holders who have passed theth September 1991. 27. Age relaxation or any other concession shall be provided as per Government of India Rules. 28. In case, any Rule/Criteria/Instruction is not mentioned in the advertisement, the matter will be dealt as per the existing Rules and Regulations of the University. 29. In the absence of any Rule/Criteria or in matters requiring removal of difficulties, the matter will be decided by the Competent Authority. The decision of the Competent Authority will be final and binding. Page | 7 30. It is assumed that candidates applying agree to the Terms & Conditions of the advertisement. 31. The Intimation letter will be sent through SPEED POST ONLY on the address mentioned by the candidates in their Application Forms. (Mohammad Imran, IPS) Registrar NOTE: 1. Applicants facing any difficulty while filling the Application Form are requested to go through the User Manual available on Careers Portal https://careers.amuonline.ac.in for guidance. The applicant may also contact Help Desk on all working days during Office hours on the following number: Tel : 0571-2700920 : 0571-2700921 Extension: 1178 Email : computercell.reg@amu.ac.in 2. Applicants are advised to regularly visit the Careers Portal for updates, if any. 3. It is suggested that applicants should complete the application proactively well in time rather than wait until the last date. 