Model Cadre Recruitment Rules for Non-Teaching Posts of
Central Universities
Sr.
No.
1.

Page
Nos.

Particulars
General Rules

1-27
SUMMARY OF POSTS

Name of Post

Core Pay Scale
7th CPC Pay
as per 6th CPC
Pay Band
Grade Pay
Matrix
(Rs.)
(Rs.)

Group

ADMINISTRATIVE / MINISTERIAL SERVICES
A
37400-67000
1. Registrar

2.
3.
4.
5.

Page
Nos.

10000

Level 14

28

Finance Officer

A

37400-67000

10000

Level 14

Controller of Examination

A

37400-67000

10000

Level 14

Deputy Registrar

A

15600-39100

7600

Level 12

Assistant Registrar
Administrative Officer
(In Colleges)

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

29
30
31
32

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

33

7.

Section Officer

B

9300-34800

4600

Level 7

34

8.

Assistant

B

9300-34800

4200

Level 6

35

9.

Upper Division Clerk

C

5200-20200

2400

Level 4

36

10. Lower Division Clerk

C

5200-20200

1900

Level 2

37-38

11. Multi Tasking Staff

C

5200-20200

1800

Level 1

39

OTHER ISOLATED ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
A
15600 – 39100
12. Internal Audit Officer

7600

Level 12

40

13. Public Relation Officer

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

41

14. Law Officer

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

42

15. Training and Placement Officer

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

43

16. Estates Officer

B

9300 – 34800

4600

Level 7

44

B

9300 – 34800

4600

Level 7

45

18. Senior Statistical Assistant

B

9300-34800

4200

Level 6

46

19. Statistical Assistant

C

5200-20200

2800

Level 5

47

6.

STATISTICAL SERVICES

17.

Statistical Officer / Research cum
Statistical Officer

i

Name of Post

Group

Core Pay Scale
7th CPC Pay
as per 6th CPC
Pay Band
Grade Pay
Matrix
(Rs.)
(Rs.)

Page
Nos.

SECRETARIAL SERVICES

20. Private Secretary

B

9300 – 34800

4600

Level 7

48

21. Personal Assistant
22. Stenographer

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

C

5200 - 20200

2400

Level 4

49
50

23. Librarian

A

37400-67000

10000

24. Deputy Librarian

A

15600-39100

8700

25. Assistant Librarian

A

15600-39100

6000

26. Information Scientist

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

55

27. Professional Assistant

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

56

28. Semi Professional Assistant

C

5200 – 20200

2800

Level 5

57

29. Library Assistant

C

5200 – 20200

2000

Level 3

58

30. Library Attendant

C

5200 – 20200

1800

Level 1

59

LIBRARY SERVICES
Academic
Level 14
Academic
Level 13A
Academic
Level 10

51
52
53-54

TECHNICAL/LABORATORY SERVICES
Technical Officer / Maintenance

31. Engineer
32. Senior Technical Assistant

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

60

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

61

33. Technical Assistant

C

5200-20200

2800

Level 5

62

34. Laboratory Assistant

C

5200 – 20200

2400

Level 4

63

35. Laboratory Attendant

C

5200 – 20200

1800

Level 1

64

INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECH. SERVICES
System Manager / Senior System

36. Analyst

System Engineer / Senior

37. Maintenance Engineer

Junior Maintenance Engineer /

38. Networking Engineer

A

15600 – 39100

7600

Level 12

65

A

15600 – 39100

7600

Level 12

66-67

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

68

A

15600-39100

5400

Level 10

69

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

70

C

5200-20200

2800

Level 5

71

System Analyst/ Programmer/

39. Computer Programmer/ System

Programmer
Senior Technical Assistant
40. (Computer) / Junior Programmer/
Assistant Programmer
41. Technical Assistant (Computer)

ii

Name of Post

Group

Core Pay Scale
7th CPC Pay
as per 6th CPC
Pay Band
Grade Pay
Matrix
(Rs.)
(Rs.)

Page
Nos.

ENGINEERING SERVICES
Superintendent Engineer

42. (Civil)/University Engineer
43. Executive Engineer (Civil)

A

15600-39100

8700

Level 13

72

A

15600-39100

6600

Level 11

73

44. Executive Engineer(Electrical)

A

15600-39100

6600

Level 11

74

B

9300 – 34800

4600

Level 7

75

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

76

47. Hindi Officer

A

15600 – 39100

5400

Level 10

77-78

48. Hindi Translator

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

79

49. Hindi Typist

C

5200-20200

1900

Level 2

80

Security Officer

B

9300 – 34800

4600

Level 7

Assistant Security Officer
Security Inspector
Security Assistant

B
C
C

9300 – 34800
5200 – 20200
5200 – 20200

4200
2800

1900

Level 6
Level 5
Level 2

81
82
83
84

54. Guest House Manager

B

9300 – 34800

4200

Level 6

85

55. Cook

C

5200 – 20200

1900

Level 2

86

56. Kitchen Attendant

C

5200 – 20200

1800

Level 1

87

57. Hostel Attendant

C

5200 – 20200

1800

Level 1

88

C

5200-20200

1900

Level 2

89

45.
46.

Assistant Engineer (Civil /
Electrical / Mechanical)
Junior Engineer

RAJBHASHA SERVICES

SECURITY SERVICES

50.
51.
52.
53.

GUEST HOUSE/HOSTEL SERVICES

TRANSPORT SERVICES

58. Driver

iii

General Rules
“NAME OF THE UNIVERSITY”
MODEL CADRE RECRUITMENT RULES
NON-TEACHING AND OTHER ACADEMIC POSTS 2022
The Executive Council/Board of Management of the “Name of the University”,in exercise of the
powers conferred under Section ------- of the University Act, Statutes ----------------- of Second
Schedule to the “Name of the Act”, in supersession of all existing recruitment rules, relevant,
Ordinances/University regulations of the Executive Council/Board of Management in this regard,
hereby frames the following rules for regulating the recruitment to the Non-Teaching and Other
Academic Posts in the University under Ordinance No.____ (No. of Ordinance).
1. SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT:
1.1
1.2

These Rules shall be called Central University Non-teaching and Other Academic Posts
Model Recruitment Rules 2022of “Name of the University”.
These Rules shall come into force with effect from the date of issue of notification by
the University.

2. DEFINITION:
In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9

2.10

‘Act’ shall mean the “Name of the Act”as amended from time to time.
‘Executive Council’ shall mean the Executive Council of “Name of the University”.
‘Appointing Authority’ in relation to any post in the University shall imply the authority
competent to make appointment to that post under the Act / Statute / Ordinances /
CRRs / Regulations of the University as amended from time to time.
'Cadre' shall mean the strength of service or a part of service sanctioned as a separate
unit.
'Departmental Candidate' shall mean the employee working on regular basis in the
“Name of the University”against a substantive post in the University but does not
includean employee working onad-hoc, daily wage, contract, or temporary basis.
‘Direct Recruitment' shall means the recruitment made other than by promotion,
deputation orabsorption.
'Government' shall mean the Government of India.
‘Non-Teaching Employee’ shall mean an employee of the University other than the
teachers of the University.
‘Other Academic Staff’ shall mean the other academic staff as defined in the “UGC
Regulations on Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other
Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Other Measures for the Maintenance of
Standards in Higher Education, 2018’ and as amended from time-to-time, which
includes the cadres of Librarians, Directors of Physical Education and Sports.
‘Regular Service’ shall mean the service rendered by an employee in the cadre on
regular basis and shall not include the service on contract/daily wage/temporary/adhoc basis
1

2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.19
2.20
2.21
2.22

2.23
2.24

'Schedule' shall mean the Schedule(s) appended to these Rules.
Selection Committee' shall mean a composition of members of Selection Committee as
specified in the Act, Statutes, Ordinances, UGC Regulations, Guidelines or the Cadre
Recruitment Rules of the University.
Departmental Promotion Committee and Departmental Confirmation Committee shall
mean departmental Promotion Committee and Departmental Confirmation Committee
respectively, as defined in the Schedule 2.
'Statutes’, ‘Ordinances' and ‘Regulations’ shall mean, respectively, the 'Statute’,
‘Ordinance' and ‘Regulations’ of the University under “Name of the Act”, for the time
being in force and as amended from time to time.
'University' shall mean“Name of the University” established under “Name of the Act”.
‘Age’ shall mean the upper age limit as specified in the Schedule 1.
‘Notified date’ shall mean the date specified in the Notification.
‘UGC’ shall mean the University Grants Commission established under the UGC Act,
1956.
‘SC’ shall mean Scheduled Caste, ‘ST’ shall mean Scheduled Tribe, ‘OBC’ shall mean
Other Backward Class, ‘PwBD’ shall mean Persons with Benchmark Disability, EWS shall
mean Economically Weaker Sections.
‘On Probation’ with relation to a person shall mean a person appointed to any post on
probation as specified in these rules.
‘Substantive appointment’ shall mean appointment on a substantive post on regular
basis including on probation followed by confirmation.
(a) ‘Service or Experience’ wherever prescribed under these rules for direct recruitment
shall mean a condition for appointment to any post shall include the period which the
person has worked on such lower post.
(b) ‘Service or Experience’ wherever prescribed under these rules for promotion shall
mean a condition for promotion to any higher post, shall include the period which the
person has continuously worked on such lower post on regular basis.
‘Competent Authority’ shall mean the authority competent to exercise different
powers and functions under these Rules.
All other words and expressions, used herein, but not defined in these Rules, unless the
context otherwise requires, shall have the same meaning as they have been assigned in
the “Name of the Act”, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations made thereunder or in
the relevant rules framed by the Government of India as amended from time to time.

3. EXTENT OF APPLICATION:
3.1
3.2

These Rules shall apply to all appointmentsof non-teaching posts including Other
Academic Staff on regular/tenure/deputation/promotion basis by the University as the
case may be.
Instructions issued by the Govt. of India/UGC regarding appointment, conditions of
service and admissible emoluments etc. of the non-teaching employees and other
academic staff from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis with due approval of the
Executive Council.

4. CLASSIFICATION OF POSTS:
4.1
4.2

Group ‘A’ (Pay Level 10 and above)
Group ‘B’ (Pay Level 6 to 9)

2

4.3

Group ‘C’ including Multi-Tasking Staff (MTS) (Pay Level 1 to 5)

5. SCHEDULE:
The number of posts, with classification, Pay-Matrix, details of qualification,experience,
method of recruitment, age limit, etc. for various posts and any other information relevant to
these posts are specified under Schedule-1.
6. APPOINTING AUTHORITY:
The Appointing Authority in respect of various posts in the University shall be as under:

A.
B.

Appointing Authority
Executive Council
Vice-Chancellor

C.

Registrar

Posts
Permanent appointment to all Group ‘A’ posts
(i) Permanent appointment to all Group ‘B’ posts
(ii) Temporary appointment to all Group ‘A’/ Group ‘B’ posts
(i) Permanent appointment to all Group ‘C’ posts.
(ii) Temporaryappointment to all Group ‘C’ posts.

7. METHOD OF RECRUITMENT:
The recruitment to various posts shall be made by the Appointing Authority by the following
methods:
7.1. Direct Recruitment
7.2. Promotion
7.3. Deputation/Absorption
7.4. Tenure Appointment
8. AUTHORISED SANCTIONED STRENGTH OF POSTS UNDER VARIOUS CADRES:
8.1 The authorized sanctioned strength of the posts under each of the cadres as on the
date of notification shall be as specified in Scheduled 1 under these rules.
8.2 After notification of these rules, any new post sanctioned by the UGC/MOE from time
to time shall be added to the authorized sanctioned strength of posts under respective
cadres with due approval of the Executive Council of the University.
9. FUTURE MAINTENANCE OF THE CADRE/POSTS:
9.1

All the appointments made through the method of recruitment, mentioned under Rule-7
above, in the University after notification of these rules, shall be made only in accordance
with the provision of these rules. The Executive Council may add any other posts and/or
Cadre as and when any new post/cadre is sanctioned by UGC / MOE. In case of sanction of
new post(s) by UGC/MOE, necessary procedural formalities such as framing of recruitment
rules of such posts(wherever necessary) have to be made and approval of the Ministry of
Education is required to be obtained. The Executive Council may abolish any post under
intimation to UGC. However, for conversion of any post to another post prior approval of
UGC shall be required.

3

9.2

The seniority of the employees borne in each cadre/post specified in these rules shall be
maintained by the Registrar of the University and/or other officer authorized for the purpose
by the Competent Authority. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, any class or
category of posts and incumbents thereof may be placed in any of the offices or
establishments, as the case may be, by general or specific order(s) of the Vice-Chancellor or
the Registrar.

10. INITIAL CONSTITUTION:
10.1 The employees holding the posts on regular basis in accordance with the prevailing rules i.e.
prior to the commencement of these rules shall be deemed to have been appointed in
accordance with the provisions of these rules.
10.2 The regular continuous service of the personnel mentioned under sub-rule (1) prior to the
initial constitution shall count for the purpose of probation period, qualifying service for
promotion, confirmation and pension scheme as applicable in the service.
11. PROCEDURE TO BE ADOPTED FOR RECRUITMENT:
I.

ISSUE OF ADVERTISEMENT:
The vacant posts of permanent nature, posts approved under specific schemes of
permanent nature, the posts of temporary nature likely to continue, tenure/deputation
posts, etc.shall be advertised at an appropriate time, giving at least one insertion in any of
the national dailies and one insertion in the University website. The candidates may fill up
the prescribed application forms along with the details of qualifications, experience and
other requirements as per the procedures to be prescribed by the university and submit
the applications duly completed in all respects along with the prescribed application fees,
if any, within the stipulated time.
Note:
(a) In order to reduce the cost of advertisement, only essential details of the recruitment
including the closing date of the application shall be indicated in the advertisement.
The closing date may be extended at the discretion of the Vice-Chancellor depending
on the exigency of the situation, by notifying on the website only, for which the
interested candidates have to be in constant touch with the website of the university.
(b) In addition to the provisions mentioned at Para 11 (I) above, the University at its
discretion, may request the Employment Exchange to sponsor candidates for posts as
per the prescribed educational qualifications, experience etc.

4

II.

TIME LIMIT FOR RECRUITMENT PROCESS
The university may ensure that the entire recruitment process including and starting from
advertisement, conducting written examination or holding the interview may be
completed within six months. (Ref: DoPT O.M.No.Misc.14017/15/2015-Estt.(RR) dated
11.01.2016 duly forwarded by UGC to all central universities vide letter No.F.74-1/2017
(CU) dated 16th October, 2017).
Provided that, if in the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor, the circumstances so warrant,
he/she may extend the time limit for the recruitment process by a maximum period of six
months.

III.

APPLICATION FORM
(a) Candidates shall be required to download the application forms from the website of
the University or submit the applications in the prescribed format online.
(b) Applications for all the posts shall be entertained only in the prescribed format
(Online/Offline), along with the prescribed fee, payable in favour of the “Name of
University”through online/offline payment.
(c) The schedule of charges for the application form and the prescribed fee shall be
determined by the Vice-Chancellor, from time to time. Concessions in
application/processing fee, wherever provided, shall be as per Govt. of India norms.
(d) Receipt of applications after the closing date:
 The closing date for receipt of applications shall ordinarily be 30 days from the
date of release of advertisement on the university website. However, the ViceChancellor may, at his discretion, decide the extension of theclosing date for
receipt of applications, keeping in view the exigency of the situation before the
closing date is over. Incomplete applications, and the applications received after
the due date, shall not be entertained.
 The Vice-Chancellor may, however, allow the acceptance of any application
received after the closing date, subject to production of proof to his/her
satisfaction that the application along with the enclosures and the remittance
details, if any was posted by the candidate on or before the closing date.
 In case the closing date is a holiday, the next working day shall be treated as the
closing date. Incomplete applications and applications not submitted in the
prescribed format, not with the prescribed fee, self-certified enclosures, etc. shall
be summarily rejected.
(e) The application should be addressed to “The Registrar, “Name of the University”in a
closed cover super-scribing "Application for the post of ................. “.
(f) Holding of Written/Skill Tests:
 While filling up the posts under direct recruitment, the University shall hold the
written and/or Skill tests for all Group “B" and "C" Non-Teaching posts.
 The written test may comprise Reasoning Ability, Simple Arithmetic, General
Knowledge, Domain Knowledge of the Establishment, Accounts, Examinations,

5






Language proficiency in English and Hindi, etc. wherever applicable, noting and
drafting etc. and/or skill tests, or any other type of test depending upon the job
requirements (such as posts under Technical/Laboratory services, Engineering,
Information and Communication Technology, Library services etc.) to be decided
by the University.
The University may conduct written tests in two stages (i) an objective type test
(Paper I) carrying 100 marks, and (ii) a descriptive-type test (Paper II) carrying 100
marks.
The minimum qualifying marks to be secured in Paper I shall be 40%. The answer
scripts of the candidates for the descriptive test shall be evaluated only in respect
of those candidates who secure the minimum qualifying marks in Paper I. The
candidates who secure 50% marks in Paper II shall be called for the skill
test/interview, wherever applicable.
The marks allocated for the skill test, wherever applicable, shall be 50 and the
minimum qualifying marks in the skill test shall be 25. The merit list of the
candidates shall be drawn based on the performance in Paper I (Objective Type
Test) and Paper II (Descriptive test) and Interview (wherever applicable) subject to
qualifying the skill test, wherever applicable.

Notwithstanding the above, the University at its discretion may hold single written
test (Descriptive Test) and skill test, wherever applicable, depending upon the number
of candidates, job requirements (such as posts under Technical/Laboratory services,
Engineering, Information and Communication Technology, Library services etc.)
(g) The marks allocated for the interview wherever applicable shall be 20% of the total
marks and shall be added to the marks scored in Paper I and Paper II or single written
(descriptive test) test as the case may be for the preparation of the merit list.
(h) The competent authority to frame the syllabi for the tests, skill tests, modalities for
carrying out the tests, evaluation, etc., shall be the Vice-Chancellor.
(i)

Relaxation in qualifying marks or any other relaxation in the test, if any for the
reserved categories shall be extended as per the Govt. of India guidelines as amended
from time to time.

(j)

The University may at its discretionadopt appropriate procedures for recruitmentto
Group ‘A’ non-teaching posts on similar lines as given above.

12. COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE SELECTION COMMITTEE:
12.1

The Composition of Selection Committee shall be as prescribed in the
Statutes/Ordinances/UGC Regulations/Notifications/Guidelines/Schedule of CRRs.

12.2

The recommendations of the Selection Committee shall be submitted to the
Appointing Authority for consideration and approval.

12.3

If two or more candidates are recommended by the Selection Committee, the
recommendations shall be made in order of merit.

6

12.4

13.

No recommendation shall be made by the selection committee with any condition
attached to it.

QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE:
The qualification(essential and desirable) and experience required shall be as indicated in
the Schedule. The qualification prescribed in the schedule for each of the post shall be the
minimum qualification.

14. AGE LIMIT:
The upper age limit for appointment to various posts shall be as specified in the Schedule.
The crucial date for determining the age shall be the closing date of the application.
15. RESERVATION OF POSTS:
15.1 The University shall strictly follow the instructions of the Government of India in respect
of reservation/relaxation/concessions to various categories in recruitment/promotions,
etc., pertaining to age, qualifying marks, experience/fees, etc. as amended from time to
time.
15.2 The candidate belonging to the reserved categories shall enclose self-attested copies of
the caste/class certificate and/or medical certificate (pertaining to the determination of
degrees of disability in case of PwBD candidates) from the competent authority in the
format prescribed by the Government of India (subject to verification at a later date),
failing which the application shall be rejected.
15.3 A candidate belonging to SC/ST/OBCwho has been selected on the same standard as
applied to the General candidates and who appears in the general merit list is to be
treated as own merit candidate. Such candidate will be adjusted against unreserved
point of the reservation roster. In other words, a candidate applying against the
unreserved vacancy cannot be considered for any relaxation.
15.4 When a relaxed standard is applied in selecting an SC/ST/OBC candidate, for example in
the age limit, experience, qualification, extended zone of consideration larger than what
is provided for un-reserved candidates etc., the SC/ST/OBC/PwBD candidates are to be
counted against reserved vacancies. Such candidates would be deemed as un-available
for the consideration against un-reserved vacancies. However, age relaxation given to
PwBD candidates will not be consideredas relaxed standard for the above purpose.
Note: Nothing in these Rules shall affect the reservations, relaxation of age limit and
other concessions required to be provided to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
and other special categories of persons in accordance with the instructions issued by the
Central Government from time to time.
Payment of TA:A candidate shall attend the interview at the designated place and time
7

at his own expenses. However, the outstation candidates belonging to the SC& ST
categories shall be reimbursed to and fro rail fare (sleeper class) for self only by the
shortest route. In case any station is not connected by rail, ordinary bus fare shall be paid
by the shortest route on production of ticket. The above-mentioned concessions shall
not be admissible to those SC/ST candidates who are already in Central/State
Government Service/ or holding any other employment under PSUs/Local
Governments/Panchayats.
16. CONSTITUTION AND ROLE OF SCREENING COMMITTEE:










The Vice-Chancellor may constitute a Screening Committee by including at least one
outside expert in the relevant field, in addition to the internal members.
The Member-Secretary to the Screening Committee shall be nominated by the ViceChancellor. It shall be the duty of the Member-Secretary to place the relevant
documents/rules/guidelines, etc., relating to the selection before the Screening
Committee.
The Screening Committee shall screen the applications and shortlist the candidates in
accordance with the eligibility criteria, prescribed in the advertisement and as per
recruitment rules. Except for the posts of Registrar, Finance Officer, Controller of
Examination, Librarian, Director of Physical Education, it must be ensured that the ratio of
the number of vacant posts to be filled and the number of candidates to be called for
interview does not exceed 1:15. In order to comply with this requirement of maximum
ratio, the Screening committee may fix higher criteria at its discretion for the candidates.
If minimum three eligible applicants are not available for any vacancy to appear for the
written test/interview, the post shall be re-advertised at-least twice after which the
University may take appropriate action with regard to the selection.
This condition shall not be insisted upon in case of selection on deputation (without
absorption). In case of posts in which there is a provision for holding a common written
test, all the eligiblecandidates, subject to the minimum 3, may be called for the written
test notwithstanding the maximum prescribed ratio. However, the successful candidates
in the written test may be called for interview, wherever required in order of merit
subject to maximum ratio of 1:15.
The Screening Committee(s) may at its discretion, recommend the candidatefor the post
on conditional basis and the conditions must be complied with, by the candidate before
the written test/skill test/interview as the case may be. Till such time, the candidature of
the candidate shall continue to remain provisional.

Note:The Acting/In-charge Vice-Chancellor shall not make any appointment to permanent nonteaching positions.However,the Acting/In-charge Vice-Chancellor may constitute a Screening
Committee/Selection Committee for the appointment of temporary posts as per MHRD (now
MoE) letter F. No. 19-58/2014-Desk (U) dated 09/01/2014 subject to approval of the Executive
Council.
17. CONSTITUTION OF SELECTION COMMITTEES / DEPARTMENTAL PROMOTION COMMITTEES/
DEPARTMENTAL CONFIRMATION COMMITTEES *
The Constitution of the Selection Committees and Departmental Promotion Committees
(DPC)/ Departmental Confirmation Committees* are specified in the Schedule-2. The ViceChancellor, at his discretion, may include the Head or any other senior member of the unit
8

concerned (in the absence of the Head of the Unit) in the Selection Committee/Departmental
Promotion Committee at the time of selection/promotion to any post in the University. Any
other member/members can also be included in the Selection Committee/Departmental
Promotion Committee as per the GoI/UGC guidelines.
(* Ref: DoPT O.M.No.AB.14017/21/2011-Estt.(RR) dated 10th May, 2013)
A person shall be disqualified for sitting as a member of any Selection/Departmental
Promotion Committee and Departmental Confirmation Committee and from taking part in any
selection/promotion process under these Rules, if he is related to any candidate or there
would be any conflict of interest in case of his association with the selection process. For this
purpose, the University shall obtain an undertaking to this effect from the member concerned
prior to the commencement of the selection process as per Govt. of India norms.
18. QUORUM:
18.1

The
Quorum
for
the
Selection
Committee/Departmental
Promotion
Committee/Departmental Confirmation Committee prescribed under the UGC
Regulations/Notifications/Statutes of the University/Instructions shallbe applicable mutatis
mutandis as amended from time to time.

18.2

For other posts, two-thirds of the members present shall form the quorum for the meeting
of a Selection Committee, which shall includethe Chairperson, the Visitor’s nominee
(wherever applicable), at least one external expert out of the two Experts or at least two
external experts out of three Experts and one representative from the respective
prescribed category as per GOI norms.

19. DIRECT RECRUITMENT BY OPEN SELECTION:
19.1

19.2
19.3
19.4
19.5

19.6

Wherever the UGC guidelines in respect of any particular non-teaching post are not
available or framed, the University shall frame its own recruitment rules, laying down the
qualifications, experience and nature of duties, etc., according to the requirements and
suitability of the post.
Recruitment to any regular post in the University shall be made on the recommendations
of a duly-constituted Selection Committee, as prescribed under these rules.
The Chairman shall be entitled to vote at the Selection Committee meeting and, in case of
a tie, shall have a casting vote.
In case two or more candidates are recommended for appointment, the recommendation
shall be in order of merit.
The recommendations of the Selection Committee for Statutory posts and other Group ‘A’
academic posts covered under the UGC Regulations, 2018 as amended from time to time
(such as Librarian, Deputy Librarian, Director of Physical Education, Deputy Director of
Physical Education, Assistant Librarian, Assistant Director of Physical Education, etc.) shall
be placed before the Executive Council for approval. If the Executive Council is unable to
accept the recommendations made by a Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons
and submit the case to the Visitor for final orders as prescribed under Statutes.
The recommendations of the Selection Committee for non-statutory Group ‘A’, ‘B’ & Group
‘C’ posts shall be placed before the competent authority as prescribed under these rules
for consideration and approval. In case the recommendations of the Selection Committee

9

are not accepted, the reason(s) for non-acceptance of such recommendations shall be
recorded and submitted to Executive Council. The power to reject the recommendations of
the Selection Committee shall rest with the Executive Council and the decision of the
Executive Council shall be final.
20. SENIORITY:
The seniority of each candidate in the respective cadre shall be determined on the basis of
his/her position in the merit list recommended by the Selection Committee and in accordance
with the relevant rules of the Govt of India/UGC.
21. APPOINTMENT AND JOINING TIME:
21.1 The appointment of a candidate shall be subject to the verification of antecedents,
educational qualifications, experience and medical fitness.
21.2 An offer of appointment issued by the University shouldclearly specify the period (which
shall not normally exceed one or twomonths) after which the offer would lapse
automatically if the candidate didnot join within the specified period.
21.3 If, however, within the specified period, a request is received from the candidate for
extension of time, it may be considered by the University but extension beyond three
months shall not be ordinarily granted. It may however be granted by the competent
authority only as an exception where facts and circumstances so warrant. In any case
extension may be given only up to a maximum of six months from the date of issue of the
original offer of appointment. An offer of appointment would lapse automatically after
expiry of six months from the date of issue of the original offer of appointment. The
candidate who joins within the above-mentioned period of six months shall have his
seniority fixed under the seniority rules applicable to the service/post concerned to which
he/she is appointed, without any depression of seniority.
22. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RECRUITMENT:
22.1

22.2

22.3

Candidate who is already in service shall submit his application through proper channel along with
vigilance clearance certificate from the competent authority. However, he may send an advance
copy of his application and in case his application is not forwarded due to whatever reasons till the
time of written test or interview as the case may be, he/she, should produce a "No Objection
Certificate along with the Vigilance Clearance Certificate in a sealed cover" from the employer.
The application for appointment on deputation shall be forwarded by the employer along with the
Annual Performance Appraisal Reports (APARs)/ACR for the preceding five years and Vigilance
Clearance Certificate, duly certified by the Competent Authority.
It shall be the responsibility of the candidate to ascertain his/her own eligibility for the post for
which he/she is applying in accordance with the prescribed qualifications, experience, etc., and
submit his application duly filled-in, along with the desired information and documents as per the
advertisement. Suppression of factual information, supply of fake documents, providing false or
misleading information or canvassing in any manner on the part of the candidates shall lead to his
disqualification. In case, it is detected at any point of time in future, even after appointment, that
the candidate was not eligible, his appointment shall be liable to termination forthwith as per this
clause. This must be mentioned in the letter of offer and appointment clearly.

10

22.4

22.5

22.6

22.7
22.8

22.9

22.10

22.11

22.12

22.13

22.14

Acceptance of documents submitted by an applicant shall be subject to verification by the
competent authority at any point of time even after joining the employment. If any document is
found to be false/fake/incorrect either before or after appointment, the document shall be
summarily rejected or action may be initiated against the candidate which shall lead to cancellation
of his appointment, as the case may be.
The person appointed against any post shall be governed by the Act/Statutes/Ordinances/Rules of
the University and also the CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964, CCS (CCA) Rule,1965 or any other rules of
the Government of India, as amended from time to time and any other rule/resolution prescribed
specifically for maintaining the conduct of the employees by the Executive Council of the
University.
The appointment of a candidate shall be subject to verification of character and antecedents by the
competent authority. Until the verification of character and antecedents reports are received, the
appointment shall be treated as provisional. In case the report/s with regard to his conduct,
character, antecedents, etc., is found to be unsatisfactory, the appointment shall be
cancelled/terminated forth with.
Canvassing in any form on behalf of any candidate shall be treated as a disqualification which shall
lead to cancellation of candidature.
In pursuance of the Letter No. 19-50/2015-Desk-U, dated 22.12.2015, of the M.H.R.D (Now MoE),
there shall be no interview for appointment to the Group ‘C’ and ‘B’ posts. Accordingly, no
interview shall be held for appointment to the Group ‘C’ and Group ‘B’ posts.
The selected candidate shall produce a medical fitness certificate issued by a Govt. Hospital/or
Govt./CGHS empanelled Hospital duly countersigned by the concerned civil surgeon or the Medical
Superintendent/Director of the concerned hospital for Group B and C post and certificate from the
Medical Board issued by a Govt. Hospital/or Govt./CGHS empanelled Hospital for Group A post as
the case may be prior to his joining.
The terms and conditions of appointment shall be communicated to the candidate in the form of
‘Offer of Appointment’ to the selected candidates. If the candidate does not accept the terms and
conditions mentioned in the offer of appointment within the stipulated time, the offer shall be
treated as withdrawn.
The selected candidates shall be required to perform duties as per the Rules of the University, as
amended from time to time. The University shall be free to assign any duty as per the exigency of
the situation at any time even during non-working hours/holidays which the employee shall have to
perform without fail to avoid any disciplinary action.
The minimum educational qualification and experience, constitution of Selection Committee,
prescribed quota, method of recruitment or any other eligibility criteria, etc. for direct recruitment
or promotion/under career progression scheme, wherever applicable on the posts of Registrar,
Finance Officer, Controller of Examinations, Librarian, Deputy Registrar, Assistant Registrar,
Assistant Librarian, etc. and equivalent posts shall be governed strictly as per the UGC's
guidelines/regulations. Any amendment to the Notification/ Regulations/Guidelines of the
UGC/Government of India in future shall be adopted mutatis-mutandis by the University for
Implementation in supersession of the existing provisions already adopted and incorporated in
these Rules.
At the time of recruitment, a ‘Service Agreement’ shall be executed between the University and the
employee concerned and a copy of the same shall be kept with the Registrar. Such service
agreement shall be duly stamped as per the rates applicable.
The candidate shall bring all original certificates relating to his age, qualifications, experience, etc.
at the time of tests or interview wherever applicable. In case the candidate fails to submit the
11

original documents for verification of the certified photocopies of the enclosures to his application,
he may not be allowed to appear at the tests/interview and his candidature may be treated as
cancelled without any further communication in this regard.
22.15 (i) The details of the vacancies shall be indicated in the advertisement. The University may also
include the details with regard to anticipated vacancies arising due to retirement of employee(s) of
that particular year or any case of voluntary retirement or resignation for which the employee has
served notice prior to the issue of advertisement shall be included in the instant advertisement. The
University reserves the right to fill or not to fill up the posts advertised for any reasons whatsoever.
However, the number of posts filled up shall not exceed the number of posts advertised including
anticipated vacancies.
(ii) The University may draw a reserved panel to fill up a post. In case a candidate on higher merit
regrets to join within a period of six months or resigns/dies after joining, within a period of one
year, the offer shall be made to the next candidate in the merit list, (if otherwise in order), to
reduce the delay in filling up of the vacancies. Such a vacancy should not be treated as fresh
vacancy.
(Reference: DoPT OM No.41010/18/97-Estt(B) dated 13th June, 2000)
(iii) The University reserves the right to withdraw an advertisement, either partly or wholly, at
any time without assigning any reason.
(iv) If any advertisement for any post is withdrawn by the University, the application fee collected
from the candidates shall be refunded within a reasonable period of time.
(v) In case of any ambiguity pertaining to the eligibility criteria for any post, the decision of the
Executive Council shall be final.

23. PROMOTION:
23.1 The candidates to be considered for promotion must comply with the prescribed eligibility
criteria as on the date of issue of the notification.
23.2 Promotion is earned by dint of hard work, good conduct, and result-oriented performance,
as reflected in the APARs. Only performance reported ''Good (Grade Point 5)" carrying Pay
Level 11, consistently for the preceding five years shall be taken into consideration by the
DPC. In case of Group ‘A’ post carrying Pay Level 12 or above, persons reported “Very Good”
(Grade Point 7) shall only be considered. Those with "Average Performance", which is not an
adverse remark, shall not be considered for promotion by the DPC. The University may hold
the written/skill tests at the time of promotion of the employees of the University and fix
qualifying marks as per the schedule appended herewith, in addition to the screening the
Annual Performance Appraisal Reports(APAR) for preceding years, depending upon the
length of Qualifying Service. While screening the Annual Performance Appraisal Reports, the
University may also fix any other criteria for consideration of the DPC.
23.3 The DPC should assess the suitability of the employees for promotion on the basis of their
service records and the Annual Performance Appraisal Reports for the preceding five years,
as specified above at clause 23.2.
23.4 In case there is any adverse entry in the APAR, or for want of prescribed score in the APAR,
the case of promotion shall not be considered unless and until the competent authority
expunges such adverse entry. If the competent authority does not expunge the adverse
entry or does not increase the score after review of performance as per procedures, the
employee concerned may have to wait for the required number of reports carrying the

12

prescribed bench marks as required for the post under these Rules.
23.5 The eligibility criteria, Vigilance Clearance Reports and APAR dossiers, duly completed in all
respects along with the seniority list and results of the written test (if conducted by the
University) of the eligible employees to be considered for promotion, with details of the
number of vacancies, number of posts reserved for SCs/STs/PwBDs, etc. shall be provided to
the DPC for consideration as per GoI rules.
23.6 In the case of "Selection", the zone of consideration of eligible officers extended zone for
SCs/STs/PwBDs to ensure the promotional chances against the reserved quota shall be
decided by the DPC on the basis of the service records of the officers. The normal zone and
the extended zone will be as per the Govt. of India rules.
23.7 The departmental test shall only be qualifying in nature. The DPC shall make its own
assessment of the officers and shall determine the merit of those being assessed for
promotion with reference to the benchmark "Good" i.e. minimum score 5 for all officers up
to the Pay Level 11 and “Very Good", i.e. a minimum score of 7 for all Group'A' posts upto
the Pay Level 12 and above, accordingly, grade the officers as 'fit' or 'unfit' only. Those who
are graded as 'fit' shall be included in the select panel in order of their inter-se-seniority in
the feeder grade, subject to the availability of regular vacancies. Those employees who are
graded 'unfit' by the DPC shall not be included in the selection panel. There shall be no
supersession in promotion among those who are graded 'fit'. The grading and score are
quoted below:
S.No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)

Grading System and Score in APAR
Grade "between 8-10" shall be rated as 'outstanding' and shall
be given a score of 9 for the purpose of calculating average
scores for appointment/promotion.
Grade "between 6 and short of 8" shall be rated as 'very good'
and will be given a score of 7 for the purpose of calculating
average scores for appointment/promotion.
Grade "between 4 and short of 6" shall be rated as ' good' and
shall be given a score of 5 for the purpose of calculating
Average scores for appointment/promotion.
Below 4 shall be given a score of 'zero'.

(a)

The meeting of the Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) shallordinarily be convened
at least once a year, which shall depend upon the availability of vacancy.

(b)

The administrative authorities shall ordinarily ensure that the information furnished to the
Departmental Promotion Committee are accurate and in proper order in all cases and a
certificate to this effect duly signed by the officer designated for the purpose shall form a
part of the note for the DPC.

(c)

Penalties of any kind (major) shall constitute a bar to one's eligibility for promotion or
confirmation as per DoPT guidelines. However, minor penalty of "censure" would not
constitute a bar on the eligibility and consideration for the purpose of
promotion/confirmation unless otherwise mentioned specifically in the order about such a
bar on the eligibility.

13

(d)

The following cases shall be brought to the notice of the DPC:
(i) Employees under suspension;
(ii) In respect of whom a charge-sheet has been issued and disciplinary proceedings are
pending; and
(iii) In respect of whom prosecution for a criminal charge has been pending in the Court
of Law.

The DPC shall assess their suitability without regard to the disciplinary aspect. The findings of the
DPC shall be kept in a sealed cover as per the fact recorded in the proceedings of the DPC.The
same procedures shall be followed by subsequent DPCs till the disciplinary/criminal cases are
concluded. On conclusion of the case, the sealed cover will be opened. In case the officer is
completely exonerated, the due date of his promotion shall be determined and he will be
promoted notionally with reference to the date of promotion of his junior and if necessary by
reverting the juniormost officiating person. If not exonerated, the recommendations of the DPC
in sealed cover shall not be acted upon.
(e)

The cases of officers under cloud after clearance by the DPC shall be settled in accordance
with the Government of India rules.

24. FUNCTIONS OF THE DPC:
24.1 The Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) shall consider and make recommendations
in all cases of Group A, B and C employees. The constitution of DPC for various categories of
posts shall be as prescribed under the Cadre Recruitment Rules of the University.
24.2 While considering the promotional cases, the Departmental Promotion Committee shall
consider the following:
(i)

Provisions of the Rules/Act/Statutes/Ordinances/University Regulations/UGC
Regulations/guidelines and GOI Rules as applicable from time to time.
(ii) Eligibility criteria and relaxations/concessions applicable to the SC/ST/PwBD
categories.
(iii) Work andConduct Reports
(iv) The Annual Performance Appraisal Reports (APARs) for the preceding five years
along with the Annual Property Returns (APRs) as available with the competent
authority. While screening the Annual Performance Appraisal Reports (APARs), the
DPC may also adopt the criteria with regard to the bench marks as mentioned in
the Statutes/Ordinances/Govt. of India rules.
(v) Vigilance Clearance Report
(vi) Roster points of the cadre(s) as per the reservation policy of the Govt. of
India/UGC.
(vii) Performance in the interview/skill test/written test, if conducted by the University
as per rules.
(viii) The DPC is expected to screen the cases and decide the eligibility based on the
aforementioned documents like APARs, Vigilance Clearance Report, Roster,
Recruitment Rules etc.
Note:In case APAR(s) for any particular period has not been written/endorsed by the designated
authority despite the fact that the employee concerned produces the proof of submission

14

of self-appraisal report(s) duly filled-in for that particular period(s) to the concerned
section, the DPC/Screening Committee shall ignore the report(s) of that particular
period(s) and shall take into account the report(s) of the immediately preceding period(s).
It is mandatory on the part of the designated officer to make entry in the relevant register
to be maintained for this purpose and issue proper receipt to the employee concerned as a
proof of submission of the appraisal reports. There shall be proper entry in the relevant
register with regard to each movement of the APAR till the completion of its process.
25. MODE OF PROMOTION:
25.1 The university should strictly adhere to the quota prescribed for Promotion of the eligible
internal candidates as per the Recruitment Rules. In case candidates are not available under
the internal quota and the posts are filled up through direct recruitment in the interest of
the university, future vacancy may be shifted proportionately to the Promotion quota and
filled up out of the eligible internal candidates from the feeder cadre. In the light of the
above, the DPC shall be required to ensure the number of available vacancies under the
promotion quota.
25.2 In addition to the conditions for promotion for the posts, as specified at 23 above,University
may decide the method and procedure to be followed for promotion in respect of any
category of posts. For this purpose, the University, at its discretion, may opt the fitness-cumseniority or hold written test or other trade/professional tests and fix qualifying marks for
any post to assess the competence in an objective manner. In such cases, association of at
least one external expert shall be mandatory.
25.3 Mere possession of eligibility conditions shall not entitle an employee to be promoted to the
next higher post from the date of his eligibility. After completion of formalities such as
Annual Performance Appraisal Reports (APARs)/ACRs, Vigilance Clearance Report, the
Departmental Promotion Committee may be constituted to evaluate and assess the
eligibility of the employees. The employees shall be considered for promotion based on the
recommendations of the DPC duly approved by the Competent Authority of the University.
25.4 All promotions of the non-teaching staff belonging to Group ‘A’, ‘B’ and Group ‘C’ shall take
effect from the date ofjoining.
25.5 Qualifying in Typing Test/Skill Test with knowledge of computers shall be the compulsory
requirement for promotion to the post of Lower Division Clerk, Upper Division Clerk,
Assistant, Semi-Professional Assistant, Library Assistant and other positions as identified
from time to time. Further, qualifying in Typing Test/Skill Test with knowledge of computers
shall be the compulsory requirement for all Personal Assistants of the University who shall
be considered for promotion as Private Secretary as per the eligibility criteria prescribed in
these Rules as prescribed for direct recruitment. The University may impose any condition to
be complied with at a future date failing which the competent authority may order for
stoppage of increment.
26. AD-HOC PROMOTIONS:
In case there is an existing vacancy and no eligible employee is available in the feeder Cadre
for promotion, the competent authority may consider relaxation by a maximum period of one

15

year at its discretion to promote an employee on ad-hoc basis after completing all procedural
formalities, as laid down under Rule 22 above. However, this arrangement shall not be allowed
to continue beyond one year in case the employee concerned is not considered for regular
promotion.
27. PANEL:

The panel drawn for promotion/direct recruitment shall be valid for a period of one year from
the date of the meeting of the DPC/date of approval of the recommendations, respectively.
28. MODIFIED ASSURED CAREER PROGRESSION SCHEME (MACP)/CAREER ADVANCEMENT
SCHEME (CAS)/DYNAMIC ASSURED CAREER PROGRESSION SCHEME

The financial up-gradation under the Career Advancement Schemes such as MACP/CAS/DACP
Scheme in respect of non-teaching staff of the University shall be allowed as per the provisions
of the Act/Statutes/Ordinances, Rules of the University and orders/guidelines of
UGC/Government of India (as amended from time to time) duly adopted by the University.
(a)

The Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme (MACPs) of the Govt. of India, duly
communicated for implementation by the UGC in respect of Non-Teaching employees,
shall be effective from 01.09.2008, or as per the eligibility criteria prescribed by the
GOI/UGC from time to time, whichever is later. Similarly, in case of Medical Officer,
Dynamic Assured Career Progression Scheme (DACPs) shall be applicable as prescribed by
the Govt. of India/UGC from time-to-time.

(b)

In case of up-gradation of pay scale, up to the level of Joint Registrar or equivalent, the
Registrar shall chair the meeting of the Screening Committee. The Vice-Chancellor shall
nominate at least one external expert and other members representing
SC/ST/OBC/PwBD/Minorities etc. wherever required as per the guidelines of the UGC /
GoI.

(c)

Any dispute in implementation of the aforementioned Career Advancement Schemes
shall be referred to the University Grants Commission, and the decision of the UGC shall
be final.

29. DEPUTATION:
The University may fill up any post on deputation by drawing officers from Govt. of
India/Autonomous Bodies/PSUs as per UGC/GOI Rules. The officer to be considered for
deputation against any post below Pay Level-14 must be less than 56 years of age and Pay
Level-14 and above must be less than 58 years of age. In case the appointment is made on
deputation by following the due process of selection prescribed for the post under the Cadre
Recruitment Rules, the incumbent may be allowed to continue for the period as prescribed by
the Govt. of India from time to time or till he attains the age of superannuation prescribed for
that particular cadre, whichever is earlier. An appointment on deputation may be made
initially for a period of three years (except statutory posts) which may be extended further at
the discretion of the Competent Authority subject to satisfactory performance. The University,
however, shall have the right to repatriate all incumbents, including the incumbents holding

16

the statutory posts, at any time even before the prescribed period in case his performance,
integrity or conduct are found to be unsatisfactory at any stage, in the opinion of the
competent authority.
Ordinarily, no person working on deputation shall be absorbed in any post of the University
after expiry of his period of deputation. In case, it is decided in the interest of the University to
absorb any such person, then the University may take up the matter with his parent
organisation for concurrence after obtaining the option of the employee concerned subject to
the condition that the matter of absorption is specifically mentioned in the advertisement.
After obtaining the consent of the parent department, the case shall be placed before the
Competent Authority for a final decision. In case he is absorbed in the University, he shall be
assigned the bottom seniority of that particular cadre as per the Govt. of India rules.
30. PROBATION:
30.1 In case of direct recruitment, the selected candidate shall be kept on probation for a period
as specified in these rules. The date from which confirmation should be given effect is the
date following the date of satisfactory completion of the prescribed period of probation or
the extended period of probation, as the case may be. The decision to confirm the
probationer or to extend the period of probation as the case may be should be
communicated to the probationer normally within 6 to 8 weeks prior to the completion of
Probation period. Probation should not be extended for more than a year and, in no
circumstances, an employee should be kept on probation for more than double the normal
prescribed period of probation. The officer will be deemed to have successfully completed
the probation period if no order confirming, discharging or reverting the officer is issued
within eight weeks after expiry of double the normal period of prescribed probation. On
completion of the probation period or any extension thereof, employees shall, if considered
fit for permanent appointment, be retained in the appointments on regular basis and be
confirmed against the available substantive vacancies as the case may be. In case there is no
perceivable improvement despite all this, his/her services shall be discharged by giving
him/her one month's notice in advance or on payment of one month's salary in lieu of
notice. The employee concerned may also exercise his/her option to resign by giving one
month's notice.
As regards other matters relating to probation, the employee will be governed by the
instructions issued by the Government of India in this regard from time to time.
30.2 In the case of promotion to the next higher group, the employee(s) shall be kept on
probation for a period of two yearsfrom the date of joining. The appointing authority may at
its discretion, extend the period of probation by one year on ground of non-performance,
misconduct or misbehaviour or if he/she fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the
appointment to the post to which he/she was promoted. In case there is no perceivable
improvement despite all this, he shall be reverted to his parent post, with immediate effect,
and consequently all theemployeespromoted against the consequential vacancies due to the
promotion of this employee shall be reverted to their respective parent posts, in case they
cannot be adjusted in any other similar vacant posts. However, there shall not be any
probation for promotion within the same group.

17

Note:
(i)

If an employee who has been recruited/promoted to any post, avail himself of leave
on a piecemeal basis, or at a time for a period of two months or more during the
period of probation, his probation shall be extended proportionately, i.e., equal to the
total period of leave availed by the employee concerned.

(ii)

In order to avoid any anomalous situation, all cases of probation of the officials should
be reviewed in every six months. In case, the result of review of performance of an
official is found to be unsatisfactory, or not up to the mark, he shall be apprised of the
consequences of unsatisfactory performance during the period of probation. Such an
appraisal should be issued in advance after which the performance of the official
concerned should be continuously kept under observation.

(iii)

Notwithstanding anything contained in the above-mentioned provision, if a
probationer is placed under suspension during the period of probation, the period of
probation may be extended till such period as the appointing authority deems fit in
the circumstances.

(iv)

As for temporary Government servants they should, as a matter of rule, be asked to
resign from the parent department/office at the time of release from the parent
department/office. An undertaking to the effect that he/she will resign from the
parent department/office, in the event of his/her selection and appointment to the
post applied for, may be taken from his/her at the time of forwarding the application.
This procedure is to be followed even in case of a temporary Government servant
applying as a direct recruit for a post in the same organisation.

(v)

An employee of the University shall be confirmed through Departmental Confirmation
Committee.

(vi)

An employee of the University shall not be confirmed on his post unless and until he
signs the ‘Service Agreement’.

(vii)

There shall be no probation in the case of an employee appointed to a post on
deputation, tenure or on re-employment after superannuation.

(viii)

The appointing authority shall record the reasons in writing while terminating the
appointment of a probationer or extension of the normal period of probation.

31. APPLICATION OF GOVT. OF INDIA RULES/ UGC REGULATIONS:
If any particular provision concerning the qualifications for recruitment and promotion or
seniority under these Rules is silent, the corresponding rules operating in the Govt. of
India/UGC, or the qualifications prescribed by the Govt. of India/UGC shall apply mutatis
mutandis.
Further, the Pay Matrix contained in the Schedules for various posts shall be revised as per the
GOI/UGC regulations/guidelines as amended from time to time.

18

32. POWER TO RELAX:
32.1 Relaxation in age, experience, qualifying marks, etc., may be granted to the candidates
belonging to the Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribes/OBC/PwBD or any other reserved category
for reserved posts as per the UGC/Govt. of India guidelines. A certificate to this effect issued
from the competent authority should be attached with the prescribed application form.
Wherever a relaxation of qualification, including percentage of marks, is permitted under the
UGC/Govt. of India guidelines, such relaxation shall also be considered in appropriate cases
subject to recommendations of the Screening Committee.
32.2 The relaxation in age shall also be given in respect of the following categories as mentioned
against each:
S.No.

Category of Persons
Extent of age relaxation
Regular Employees of the Central Govt/State As per Government of
Govt./Central
Universities/UGC
maintained India rules.
1.
deemed to be Universities/other Central/State
autonomous bodies/organisations/Institutions.
2. Ex-Servicemen

The upper age limit for appointment of Group ‘C’ posts is relaxable for Group ‘C’ and erstwhile
Group ‘D’ departmental candidates up to 40 years in case of General candidates and 45 years
in case of candidates belonging the SC/ST who has rendered three years continuous regular
service in university in accordance with the instructions or orders issued by the Govt. of India.
33. DISQUALIFICATION:
The following categories of persons shall not be eligible to apply for any position in the
University:
33.1 Who has been convicted by any Court of Lawor any criminal proceedings are pending against
him;
33.2 Who is a person of unsound mind and questionable conduct or not medically fit to perform
his duties.
33.3Who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a living spouse;
Provided that the Competent Authority of the University may, if satisfied that such marriage
is permissible under the personal law applicable to such person and the other party to the
marriage and there are other grounds for doing so, exempt any person from the operation
of these rules;
33.4 Who is not a citizen of India; and
33.5 Any other category of person disqualified for appointment by the Govt. of India/State
Govt./UGC from time to time.
34. VIGILANCE CLEARANCE:
34.1 Candidate who is already in service shall submit the Vigilance Clearance Certificate from the
employer or his authorised officer, to the effect that no disciplinary/criminal proceedings are
pending or contemplated against him. It shall be directly sent by the parent department or
19

be handed over to the employee concerned in sealed cover at the time of written/skill
test/interview as applicable or along with the application.
34.2 Wilful suppression of factual information or any document relating to the eligibility or
otherwise as a candidate, followed by supply of fake documents or misleading statement or
information in the application or tampering with the documents or providing such
information relating to the achievements, caste, educational qualifications, experience or
domicile, etc., the Chief Vigilance Officer of the University shall have the powers to
investigate/inquire into the matter and submit his report to the Vice-Chancellor for further
action at any stage ofrecruitment process or employment. If any of these acts is found to be
true, the candidate shall be disqualified for appointment to the post or if already appointed,
his/her services shall be liable to be terminated, with immediate effect after adhering to the
procedures.
34.3 Notwithstanding the provisions of para 10 in Schedule 2 of the CRR, wherever, there is only
one sanctioned post in any cadre, the post shall be filled through direct recruitment only.
34.4 These are the model cadre recruitment rules which have been prepared generally to cover
all the posts sanctioned to different Central Universities and its constituent / affiliated
college(s), as far as possible. The Universities shall accordingly adopt the CRR only for such
posts which are sanctioned to them by the UGC. This model CRR does not entitle any
University to create any post mentioned in the model CRR other than those sanctioned to
them by UGC. They shall not create/demand any other post merely because such posts exist
in the model CRR.

35. REMOVAL OF DIFFICULTIES:
If any difficulty arises in the implementation or operation of any of the provision of these rules,
the Vice-Chancellor may, from time to time issue with the approval of the Executive Council,
such general or specific directions but not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, Statutes,
Ordinances or directives of the Government of India, Ministry of Education/University Grants
Commission, which appear to be necessary for the purpose of removing such difficulty.
36. INTERPRETATION:
Any ambiguity or lack of clarity with regard to any clause of the Rules, the matter may be
referred to UGC for clarification.
37. AMENDMENT OF RULES:
Amendment, modification, changes, withdrawal, suspension and relaxation in any or all of
provisions of these Rules shall be done with prior approval of Govt. of India/UGC.
38. RESIDUARY MATTERS:
In regard to the matters not specified or referred to in these rules, the corresponding

20

provisions as provided by the UGC for their employees or as prescribed by the Govt. of India
relating to its employees, as amended from time to time, shall be followed. In case any
particular provision in these Rules is in conflict with any provision of the UGC
Regulations/guidelines or Govt. of India Orders, the provisions of the UGC
Regulations/guidelines or Govt. of India Orders shall prevail.
39. LIABILITY OF OFFICERS TO SERVE ANYWHERE IN INDIA:
The non-teaching employees and other academic staff shall be liable to serve anywhere in
India within the jurisdiction of the University.
40. TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
In case of any dispute, the territorial jurisdiction for adjudication shall be the “Name of the
High Court”
41. REPEAL:
All the existing rules and orders in relation to the matters covered under these rules shall stand
repealed but any action already taken pursuant to such existing rules and orders shall be
deemed to have been taken under these rules.
***********

21

Selection Committee for Direct Recruitment /Departmental Promotion
Committee/Departmental Confirmation Committee
of Non-Teaching Employees
(1)

Schedule-II

Following shall be the constitution of the Selection Committees:
(a) For Group ‘A’ posts (other than statutory posts and those covered under UGC
Regulations):
1. Vice-Chancellor/ProVice-Chancellor*
:
Chairperson
(*in the absence of Vice-Chancellor)
2. Two experts, not in service of the University, nominated by :
the Vice-Chancellor out of the panel approved by the EC.

Member

3

Head of the Unit/Department

:

Member

4

One member of the EC nominated by it.

:

Member

5

#
A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority /Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

6

Registrar

:

Member

:

Chairperson

(b) For Group ‘B’posts:
1. ProVice-Chancellor/Registrar*
(*in the absence of Pro Vice-Chancellor)

2. Two experts, not in the service of the University, nominated :
by the Vice-Chancellor out of the panel approved by the EC.

Member

3

Head of the Unit/ Department

:

Member

4

#
A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority /Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

5

Registrar/Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar

Member

22

:

(c) For Group ‘C’posts:
1. Registrar

:

Chairperson

2. Two experts, not in service of the University, nominated by :
the Vice-Chancellor out of the panel approved by the EC.

Member

3

Head of the Unit/Department

:

Member

4

A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

5

Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar

Member

:

23

(2) Following shall be the constitution of the Departmental Promotion Committee:
(a) For Group ‘A’ posts (other than statutory posts):
1. Vice-Chancellor/Pro Vice-Chancellor*

:

Chairperson

(*in the absence of Vice Chancellor)
2. One expert, not in service of the University, nominated by :
the Vice-Chancellor

Member

3. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

:

Member

4. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

5

Member

Registrar

:

(b) For Group ‘B’:
1. ProVice-Chancellor/Registrar*

:
Chairperson

(*in the absence of Pro Vice-Chancellor)
2. One expert, not in service of the University, nominated by the :
Vice-Chancellor

Member

3. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

:

Member

4. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

5. Registrar/Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar

Member

24

(c) For Group ‘C’:
1. Registrar

:

Chairperson

2. One expert, not in service of the University, nominated by :
the Vice-Chancellor

Member

3. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

:

Member

4. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority#/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

5

Member

Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar of the unit concerned

25

:

(3) Following shall be the constitution of the Departmental Confirmation Committee:
(a) For Group ‘A’ posts (other than statutory posts):
1. Vice-Chancellor/Pro Vice-Chancellor*

:

Chairperson

:

Member

3. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

4

:

Member

:

Chairperson

:

Member

3. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

4. Registrar/Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar

Member

(*in the absence of Vice-Chancellor)
2. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

Registrar

(b) For Group ‘B’ posts:
1. ProVice-Chancellor/Registrar*
(*in the absence of Pro Vice-Chancellor)

2. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

26

(c) For Group ‘C’ posts:
1. Registrar

:

Chairperson

2. Head of the concerned Unit/Department

:

Member

3. A representative of SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/PwBD, if :
any of the candidatesbelonging to these categories, to be
nominated by the Vice-Chancellor, if any of the above
members of the Selection Committee do not belong to the
same category.

Member

4

Member

Joint Registrar/Deputy Registrar of the unit concerned

:

# The representative of the Minority shall be associated in the Selection Committee if the number of
vacancies is 10 or more than 10.

Quorum:
Two-thirds of the members shall form the quorum for the meeting of a Selection Committee,
which shall include the Chairperson, the Vice-Chancellor’s nominee (wherever applicable), at least
one external expert out of the two experts and one representative from the respective reserved
category as per requirement.
Two-thirds of the members shall form the quorum for the meeting of a Departmental Promotion
Committee/Departmental Confirmation Committee.

27

REGISTRAR
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Registrar
1 (One)
Group ‘A’
Level 14
Not Applicable
Preferably below 57 years
Essential:
i) Master’s degree with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is
followed.
ii)

At least 15 years of experience as Assistant Professor in the
Academic Level 11 and above or with 8 years of service in
the Academic Level 12 and above including as Associate
Professor along with experience in educational
administration
or
Comparable experience in research establishment and/ or
other institutions of higher education,
or
15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years
shall be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether
Age
and
educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by
deputation/absorption and percentage of
the post to be filled by various methods.

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
Direct/Deputation for a tenure of five years or till attaining the
age of superannuation i.e. 62 years, whichever is earlier

(Eligible for reappointment after observance of due selection
process)
In case of recruitment by promotion/ Deputation:
deputation / absorption, grades from Qualifications & Experience: As indicated at col. 7.
which promotion / deputation / Grade: Holding analogous post or eight years’ experience at Pay
absorption to be made
Level-12
Selection Committee: As at column 12.
Composition
Committee

of

DPC

or

Selection As per Act/Statutes /UGC Notification

28

FINANCE OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Finance Officer
1 (One)
Group ‘A’
Level 14
Not Applicable
Preferably below 57 years
Essential:
i)
Master’s degree with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is
followed.
ii)

At least 15 years of experience as Assistant Professor in the
Academic Level 11 and above or with 8 years of service in
the Academic Level 12 and above including as Associate
Professor along with experience in educational
administration
or
Comparable experience in research establishment and/ or
other institutions of higher education,
or
15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years shall
be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether
Age
and
educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be filled by
various methods.
In case of recruitment by promotion/
deputation / absorption, grades from
which promotion / deputation /
absorption to be made

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
Direct/Deputation for a tenure of five years or till attaining the age
of superannuation i.e. 62 years, whichever is earlier
(Eligible for reappointment after observance of due selection
process)

Deputation:
Appointment preferably by drawing officers not below the Level
12 belonging to the Indian Audit and Accounts services or other
similar organized Services in Central/ State Govt.
or
University System/ Other organisation subject to fulfilment of
qualification as indicated under col. 7 on Deputation for a tenure of
5 years or till attaining the age of 62 years, whichever is earlier.
Note: The Selection Committee for deputation shall be the same as
at column 12.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per Act/Statutes /UGC Notification
Committee

29

CONTROLLER OF EXAMINATIONS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Controller of Examinations
1 (One)
Group ‘A’
Level 14
Not Applicable
Preferably below 57 years
Essential:
i)
Master’s degree with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is
followed.
ii)

At least 15 years of experience as Assistant Professor in the
Academic Level 11 and above or with 8 years of service in
the Academic Level 12 and above including as Associate
Professor along with experience in educational
administration
or
Comparable experience in research establishment and/ or
other institutions of higher education,
or
15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years
shall be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether
Age
and
educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by
deputation/absorption and percentage of
the post to be filled by various methods.

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
Direct/Deputation for a tenure of five years or till attaining the
age of superannuation i.e. 62 years, whichever is earlier

(Eligible for reappointment after observance of due selection
process)
In case of recruitment by promotion/ Deputation:
deputation/absorption, grades from Qualifications & Experience: As indicated at col. 7.
which promotion/ deputation/ absorption Grade: Holding analogous post or eight years’ experience at Pay
to be made
Level-12
Selection Committee: As at column 12.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per Act/Statutes /UGC Notification
Committee

30

DEPUTY REGISTRAR
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Deputy Registrar
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 12
Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment/Deputation
50 Years
Essential Qualifications:

i.
ii.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Master’s Degree with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is
followed.
Five years of experience as Assistant Registrar or in
equivalent post in the Pay Level 10 and above.

Age: No
Academic Qualification: Must possess at least Bachelor’s degree from
a recognized University.
One year
75% by Direct Recruitment
25% by promotion, failing which by deputation.
(Ref: MHRD Letter No.1-7/2015-.U.II (2) dated 02/11/2017)

Promotion: Assistant Registrar with five years regular service in Pau
Level 11.
Deputation: Officers holding analogous posts on regular basis or with
five years regular service in Pay Level 11or with eight years regular
service in Pay Level 10in the Central/State Government, Universities
and other autonomous organisations.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

31

ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
Recruits

Assistant Registrar
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 10

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion
/
deputation
/
absorption to be made

Age: No
Qualification: No, but must possess at least Bachelor's degree from a
recognized University/Institute.

Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment/Deputation
40 Years
Essential Qualifications:

I. Master’s Degree with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is
followed.
II. The appointment under direct recruitment shall be made
through an All India open competition by conducting a
written test and interview.

Two Years
50% by direct recruitment
50% by promotion, failing which by deputation/direct recruitment.
Promotion:5 years of regular service as Section Officer / Private
Secretary (pay level 7 & above).

Based on merit from among the eligible candidates having requisite
experience from feeder cadres on the basis of a written test.
Deputation:
Officers holding analogous posts on regular basis or with 5 years regular
service in lower grades position in Level 7/Level 8 in the Central /State
Government, Universities and other autonomous organizations.
Knowledge of Computer Applications
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules
Committee

32

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER (IN COLLEGES)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
Recruits

Administrative Officer (In Colleges)
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 10

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion
/
deputation
/
absorption to be made

Age: No
Academic Qualification: No, but must possess at least Bachelor's
degree from a recognized University/Institute.

Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment/Deputation
40 Years
Essential Qualifications:
1. Master’s Degree with at least 55% of the marks or an equivalent
grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed.
2. The appointment under direct recruitment shall be made through an
All India open competition by conducting a written test and
interview.

Two Years
50% by direct recruitment
50% by promotion, failing which by deputation/direct recruitment.
Promotion:5 years of regular service as Section Officer / Private
Secretary (pay level 7 & above).

Based on merit from among the eligible candidates having requisite
experience from feeder cadres on the basis of a written test.
Deputation:
Officers holding analogous posts on regular basis or with 5 years regular
service in lower grades position in Level 7/Level 8 in the Central /State
Government, Universities and other autonomous organizations.
Knowledge of Computer Applications
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules
Committee

33

SECTION OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Section Officer
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7
Selection
Not Applicable in case of Direct Recruitment/Deputation
35 Years
Essential Qualifications:

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion /
deputation / absorption to be made

Age: No
Academic Qualification: Yes (As indicated at column 7)

i)

A Bachelor’s Degree in any discipline from any recognised
Institute/ University.
ii) Three Years’ Experience as Assistant in the Level 6 or eight
years as UDC in Level 4 in any Central / State Govt./
University/ PSU and other Central or State Autonomous
Institutions or holding equivalent positions in any reputed
Private companies/ bank with annual turnover of at least
Rs.200/- Crores or more.
iii) Proficiency in Computer Operation, noting and drafting.

Two Years
75% by Promotion from the cadre of Assistant subject to qualifying the
departmental test, failing which by deputation.
25% by Direct Recruitment (based on written test and skill test)
Promotion: 05 years of regular service from the feeder grade of Assistant
in Level 6subject to seniority-cum-fitness with academic qualification as
in Col.7 above.

Deputation: Officers holding analogous post on regular basis or with
three years regular service in Level 6 or equivalent in the Central/ State
Govt. Universities or autonomous organisations and possess the
Bachelor’s degree as prescribed for direct recruits at Col.7 above.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules
Committee

34

ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Assistant
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6
Non-Selection in case of promotion
Not Applicable in case of Direct Recruitment/Deputation
35 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor Degree from a recognized University / Institution.
Three Years of experience as UDC or equivalent in the Level 4 in Central/
State Government/ University/ PSU and other Central / State Autonomous
Bodies or equivalent pay package in the reputed private Companies/
corporate banks with a minimum annual turnover of at least Rs.200/Crores or more.
Proficiency in Typing, Computer applications, noting and drafting.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Age: No
Academic Qualification: Yes (As indicated at column 7)
Two Years
75% by Promotion
25% by Direct Recruitment (based on written test and skill test)
Promotion: UDC with 5 years of regular service in Level 4 according to
seniority-cum-fitness.
As per schedule II of these Rules

35

UPPER DIVISION CLERK
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Upper Division Clerk
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 4

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

No

Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

1. A Bachelor’s Degree from any recognized Institute/
University.
2. Two year experience as Lower Division Clerk/ Equivalent
posts in University/ Research Establishment / Central State
Govt./ PSU/ Autonomous Bodies or equivalent pay package in
the reputed private Companies/ corporate banks with a
minimum annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more.
3. Speed in English Typing @ 35 wpm OR Speed in Hindi
Typing @ 30 wpm
4. Proficiency in Computer Operations.

Two Years
75% by Promotion
25% by Direct Recruitment (based on written test and skill test)
Promotion:
Lower Division Clerk/Hindi Typist with five years regular service in
Pay Level 2 according to seniority cum fitness failing which by direct
recruitment.
As per schedule II of these Rules

*The post of Hindi Typist is to be clubbed with LDC for the purpose of Career progression with bottom
seniority in future, inter-se-seniority between the two cadre shall be maintained.

36

LOWER DIVISION CLERK
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post

Lower Division Clerk
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 2

Selection
Non-Selection for Col. 10 (iii)
Not Applicable for Direct Recruitment
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
32 Years
Educational
and
other Essential Qualifications:
qualifications required for direct (i) A Bachelor’s Degree from any recognized Institute/
recruits
University.

(ii) English Typing @ 35 wpm OR Hindi Typing @ 30
wpm(35wpm and 30wpm correspond to 10500KDPH/
9000KDPH on an average of 5 Key depressions for each work)
(iii) Proficiency in Computer Operations.
8

9
10

Whether Age and educational No
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether i) 85% by Direct Recruitment through written and skill test in
by direct recruitment or by
various components of MS Office particularly in MS Word, MS
promotion
or
by
Excel, etc.
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be ii) 10% of vacancies shall be filled up from amongst the Group 'C'
filled by various methods.
employees in the Level 1 and who possess Senior Secondary

(10+2) or equivalent qualification and have rendered three years
regular service in the grade, on the basis of the departmental
qualifying examination. The maximum age limit for eligibility
for such examination is 45 Years**
Note: The panel shall be valid for a period of one year.

iii. Promotion: 5% of the vacancies shall be filled on senioritycum-fitness basis from Group 'C' (MTS) employees who have
five years regular service in posts in the Level 1 subject to
fulfilling the educational qualification of (10+2) or equivalent.
The relaxation of Skill/Typing Test for the promotion from MTS to
LDC shall be governed as per DoPT OM No. F.o.14020/1/2014-Estt.
(D) dated 22nd April, 2015.
11

In case of recruitment by
promotion/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion/
deputation
/

As in Column No. 10

37

12

absorption to be made
Composition of DPC
Selection Committee

or As per schedule II of these Rules.

**Only those Group-C (Level-1) employees, who are holding the posts of MTS/Isolated posts shall
be considered eligible for the post of LDC through Departmental Qualifying Examination.

38

MULTI TASKING STAFF
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Multi-Tasking Staff (MTS)
As per the UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 1
Not Applicable

32 Years
Essential Qualifications:
10th Pass from a recognized Board.
OR
ITI Pass.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment through Written and Trade Test.
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

39

INTERNAL AUDIT OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

9
10

11

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits
Whether
Age
and
educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by direct
recruitment or by promotion or by
deputation/absorption and percentage of
the post to be filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by promotion/
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which promotion/ deputation/absorption
to be made

Internal Audit Officer (On Deputation only)
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 12
Not Applicable
56 Years (on deputation)

Not Applicable
Not Applicable

Not Applicable
Deputation

Deputation: By drawing officers belonging to Audit and
Accounts Services or other similar organised Accounts Services
in Central / State Govt., holding analogous posts on regular basis.
OR
with three years regular service in Level 11 or equivalent in the
area of Audit and Accounts in any Govt. Department/
Autonomous Bodies.
OR

12

Composition
Committee

of

DPC

or

with five years regular service in Level 10 or equivalent in the
area of Audit and Accounts in any Govt. Department/
Autonomous Bodies.
Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.

40

PUBLIC RELATION OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Public Relation Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 10
Not Applicable
40 Years
Essential Qualifications:

i. Masters' Degree with at least 55% of marks or its equivalent
grade of B in the UGC 7 point scale in Journalism and Mass
Communication from recognised University / Institute.
ii. At least Five years experience in the editorial department/ Centre
of any Central / State Govt. department / PSU / Central / State
Educational Institutions established English/ regional Newspaper
accredited with ABC, National News Agencies, Radio or
Television, Film Media, reputed advertising agencies with
excellent command of speaking in English, Hindi and Regional
Language.

Desirable:
Good working knowledge of computer applications.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

41

LAW OFFICER
1.

Name of Post

Law Officer

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University

3.

Classification of the post

Group ‘A’

4.

Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 10
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection or Non-Selection Post

Not Applicable

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

40 Years

7.

Educational
and
other Essential Qualification:
qualifications required for direct (i) LLB. from a recognized Indian Universities /
recruits
Institutions with at least 7 years’ experience of law
practice in a Court of Law in the civil/criminal/service
matter duly certified.
(ii) LL.M. from the recognized Indian Universities /
Institutions with at least 55% of marks or an equivalent
grade point in the grade point scale.

8.

Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotees?

9.

Period of probation, if any.

10.

Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to
be filled by various methods.

11.

In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/deputation/absorption
to be made.

12.

If a Departmental Promotion As per Schedule II of these rules.
Committee exists what is it
composition.

Two Years

42

TRAINING AND PLACEMENT OFFICER
1.

Name of Post

Training and Placement Officer

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University

3.

Classification of the post

Group ‘A’

4.

Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 10
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection or Non-Selection Post

Not Applicable

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

40 Years

7.

Educational
and
other Qualification
qualifications required for direct (i) MBA (HR)/ B.Tech from a recognized Indian
recruits
Universities/ Institutions with at least 55% of marks or
an equivalent grade point in the grade point scale.
(ii) At least 7 years’ experience in the area of
Training/Placement in a University or big corporate of
repute.

8.

Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotees?

9.

Period of probation, if any.

Two Years

10. Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment
direct
recruitment
or
by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to be
filled by various methods.
11. In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion
/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion/deputation/absorption
to be made.
12. If a Departmental Promotion As per Schedule II of these rules.
Committee exists what is it
composition.

43

ESTATES OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits
Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Estates Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7
Not Applicable
35 Years
A second class Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering with a minimum of
5 years’ experience in construction and maintenance of Building, Transport
and Estate Management.
Not Applicable

Two Years
Direct Recruitment through written test

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

44

STATISTICAL OFFICER / RESEARCH CUM STATISTICAL OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Statistical Officer / Research cum statistical Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
35 Years
Essential Qualification :

(i) Master’s degree in Statistics/Mathematical Statistics /
Applied Statistics.
(ii) 03 years experience in collection, compilation, tabulation,
analysis & interpretation of statistical data in a Central/State
Govt., PSUs/Statutory Bodies/ Autonomous Organizations

Two Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

45

SENIOR STATISTICAL ASSISTANT
1.

Name of Post

Senior Statistical Assistant

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University

3.

Classification of the post

4.

Group ‘B’
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 6
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection or Non-Selection Post

Selection

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

35 Years

7.

Educational
and
other Essential Qualification :
qualifications required for direct 1. Bachelor’s degree in relevant field from a recognized
recruits
Institution with 05 years post qualification experience in
the relevant field from any Institution / Organization of
Repute.
OR
02 years diploma in the relevant field from a recognized
Institution with 08 years of post-qualification experience
in the relevant field from any Institution / Organization of
Repute.
2. Degree or Diploma in Computer Application.

8.

Whether age & educational Age : No.
qualifications prescribed for Qualification : Yes
direct recruits will apply in the
Five years’ experience as Statistical Assistant based on
case of promotions?
Seniority-cum-fitness.

9.

Period of probation, if any.

10.

Method of recruitment whether 50% by promotion failing which by Deputation / Direct
by direct recruitment or by Recruitment.
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and 50% by Direct Recruitment.
percentage of the vacancies to be
filled by various methods.

11.

In case of recruitment by
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/deputation/
absorption to be made.

12.

Composition
of
DPC
Selection Committee

Two Years

Promotion:5 years regular service in the Pay Level 5
based on Seniority-cum-fitness subject to fulfillment of
qualification mentioned at Column 8
Deputation: Analogous post / Level 5 with requisite
experience at Column 7.

or As per Schedule II of these rules.

46

STATISTICAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for
direct recruits

Statistical Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 5
Not Applicable
32 Years
Bachelor’s Degree in Statistics

OR
Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics with Statistics as one of the subjects
OR
Bachelor’s degree in Economics with Statistics as one of the subjects
OR
Bachelor’s degree in Commerce with Statistics as one of the subjects
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment through written test
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/
deputation/absorption, grades
from
which
promotion/
deputation/absorption to be
made
Composition of DPC or As per schedule II of these Rules.
Selection Committee

47

PRIVATE SECRETARY
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Private Secretary
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7
Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment
35 Years
Qualifications:

1. A Bachelor’s Degree from a recognized University/Institute.
2. At least 03 Years experience as Personal Assistant or 5 years
as Stenographer in a University/ Research establishment/
Central/ State Govt. /PSU and other autonomous bodies.
3. English/Hindi Stenography speed:120 wpm in English or 100
wpm in Hindi
4. English/Hindi Typing speed: 35 w.p.m. in English or 30
w.p.m.in Hindi.
5. Knowledge of computer applications.

Skill Test Norms on Computer:
Dictation: 10 minutes @ 120 w.p.m. in English/100 w.p.m. in Hindi
Transcription: 50 minutes (English)/ 60 minutes (Hindi)
Desirable:
Proficiency in English & good communication skills.
Whether Age and educational Age: No
qualifications prescribed for direct Academic Qualification: Yes
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether by i) 75% by promotion
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and ii) 25 % by direct recruitment failing which by deputation.
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Promotion:
promotion/ deputation/absorption, Personal Assistant with 05 (five) years regular service in Level 6on the
grades from which promotion/ basis of seniority-cum-fitness, subject to qualifying in the stenography
deputation/absorption to be made
test as mentioned under column 7..
Deputation:
Persons holding analogous posts on regular basis or with 3 years regular
service as Personal Assistant in the Level 6/Level 7 of any Central/State
Govt./ University/ Public Sector Undertaking as other Central or State
Autonomous bodies and fulfilling the educational qualifications and
other professional requirements as prescribed at column 7.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

48

PERSONAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Personal Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6
Selection
Not Applicable in case of Direct Recruitment
35 Years
Essential Qualifications:

1. A Bachelor’s Degree in any discipline from any recognised
Institute/ University.
2. Proficiency in Stenography in English or Hindi with
minimum speed of 100wpm.
3. Proficiency in Typing in English or Hindi with minimum
speed of 35 / 30 wpm respectively.
4. Knowledge of Computer Applications.
5. Two years experience as Stenographer or equivalent in
Central State Govt. Organisations / University Research
Institution or Central / State autonomous Institution/reputed
private institutions having a turnover 200 Crores.

Desirable: Proficiency in English and good communication skills.
Skill Test Norms on Computer:
Dictation: 10 minutes @ 100 w.p.m.
Transcription: 40 minutes English/55 minutes Hindi
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether by i) 75% by promotion failing which by deputation.
direct recruitment or by promotion ii) 25 % by direct recruitment failing which by deputation.
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Promotion : Stenographer with 05 (five) years regular service in
promotion/ deputation/absorption, Level 4on the basis of seniority-cum-fitness, subject to qualifying in
grades from which promotion/ the stenography test as mentioned under column 7.
deputation/absorption to be made
Deputation: Officers holding analogous post on regular basis or with
three years regular service in Level 4/Level 5 or equivalent in the
Central/ State Govt. Universities or autonomous organisations and
possess the qualification as prescribed for direct recruits at Col.7
above.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule 2 of these Rules.
Committee

49

STENOGRAPHER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Stenographer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 4
Not applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

1. A Bachelor’s Degree in any discipline from any recognised
Institute/ University.
2. Proficiency in Stenography in English or Hindi with minimum
speed of 80wpm.
3. Proficiency in Typing in English or Hindi with minimum
speed of 35 / 30 wpm respectively.
4. Knowledge of Computer Applications.

Desirable Qualifications: Proficiency in English
communication skills.
Skill Test Norms on Computer:
Dictation: 10 minutes @ 80 w.p.m.
Transcription: 50 minutes English/65 minutes Hindi
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether by 100% by Direct Recruitment
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

50

and

good

LIBRARIAN
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Librarian
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Academic Level 14

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion
/
deputation/
absorption, grades from which
promotion/ deputation/absorption
to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
Preferably below 57 Years
Essential Qualifications:

i)

Master’s Degree in Library Science/ Information Science/
Documentation Science with at least 55% of marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever the grading system
is followed.
ii) At least 10 years as a Librarian at any level in University
Library or ten years of teaching as Assistant/ Associate
Professor in Library Science or ten years’ experience as a
College Librarian.
iii) Evidence of innovative Library services, including the
integration of ICT in a library.
iv) A Ph.D. Degree in library science/ documentation/ archives
and manuscript keeping.

One Year
Direct recruitment failing which by Deputation.

Deputation: Officers of Central/ State Governments, Universities and
other Autonomous Organizations holding analogous posts on regular
basis subject to possessing educational qualification and experience as
prescribed in column 07.
As per UGC Regulations 2018

51

DEPUTY LIBRARIAN
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Deputy Librarian
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Academic Level 13A
Not Applicable
50 Years

Qualifications:i. Master’s degree in Library Science/ Information Science/
documentation science, with at least 55% of the marks or an
equivalent grade in a point scale wherever the grading
system is followed.
ii. Eight years experience as an Assistant University Librarian/
College Librarian.
iii. Evidence of innovative library servicesincluding integration
of ICT in library.
iv. A Ph.D. Degree in library science / information science/
Documentation Science/ Archives and manuscript keeping/
computerization of library

Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
One Year
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per UGC Regulations 2018
Committee

52

ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Assistant Librarian
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Academic Level 10
Not Applicable
40 Years
Qualifications:

i.

ii.
iii.

A Master’s degree in Library Science, Information Science
or Documentation Science or an equivalent professional
degree with at least 55% of marks (or an equivalent grade in
a point scale wherever grading system is followed)
A consistently good academic record with knowledge of
computerization of library.
Qualifying in the National Eligibility Test (NET) conducted
by the UGC, CSIR or similar test accredited by the UGC
like SLET/SET or who are or have been awarded a Ph.D.
degree in accordance with the "University Grants
commission (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award
of M.Phil./Ph.D. Degree), Regulations 2009 or 2016 and
their amendments from time to time as the case may be:

Providedthat the, candidates registered for the Ph.D. programme prior to
July 11, 2009, shall be governed by the provisions of the then existing
Ordinances / Bye-laws / Regulations of the Institutions awarding the
degree and such Ph.D. candidates shall be exempted from the
requirement of NET/SLET/SET for recruitment and appointment of
Assistant Professor or equivalent positions in Universities/Colleges /
Institutions subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions:
a) The Ph.D. degree of the candidate has been awarded in regular
mode
b) The Ph.D. thesis has been evaluated by at least two external
examiners;
c) Open Ph.D. viva voce of the candidate had been conducted;
d) The candidate has published two research papers from his/her Ph.D.
work out of which at least one must be in a refereed journal;
e) The Candidate has presented at least two papers based on his/her
Ph.D. work in conferences/ seminars sponsored/ funded/ supported
by the UGC/ ICSSR/ CSIR or any other similar agency.
Note:

(i)

The fulfilment of these conditions is to be certified by the
Registrar or the Dean (Academic Affairs) of the university
concerned.
53

(ii) NET/SLET/SET shall also not be required for such Masters
Programmes for which NET/SLET/SET is not conducted by
the UGC, CSIR or similar test accredited by the UGC like
SLET/SET.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion /
deputation / absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

One Year
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per UGC Regulations 2018

54

INFORMATION SCIENTIST
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Information Scientist
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 10
Not Applicable

40 Years
Essential Qualifications:
First Class M.E. / M.Tech. (Computer Science) / Information
Technology) Or equivalent.
OR
First Class B.E. / B.Tech (Computer Science) / Information Technology)
or equivalent with two years of relevant experience.
OR
First Class Master in Computer Applications (MCA) or equivalent with
two years of relevant experience.
OR
First Class M.Sc. (Computer Science/ Information Technology) from a
recognized University/ Institute with three years of relevant experience.
OR
First Class Masters Degree in Library and Information Science (M.Lib.
or M.LIS) and Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications or
MCA or M.Sc. (Computer Science/Information Technology)
Desirable Qualification:
Relevant
experience
in
Library/office
automation/server
configuration/maintenance of e-resource/data base management/
content management/ programming/ development of website/
portals/information systems/gateway and networking.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Deputation: Officers of the Central/ State Government, Autonomous or
promotion/ deputation/absorption, Statutory Organisation, PSU, University or recognised research institution;
grades from which promotion/ (i) Holding analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or
deputation/absorption to be made
department or
(ii) with 5 years’ service rendered after appointment to the post on regular
basis in the Level 6/7 or equivalent in the parent cadre or department; and
(iii) Possessing the qualifications and experience prescribed for direct
recruitment under column 7.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

55

PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Professional Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6
Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment
35 Years
Qualifications:

1. Master’s Degree in Library & Information Science from any
recognised University /Institution with 02 years experience
in the relevant field in a University/Research establishment /
Central / State Govt. / PSU and Library of other autonomous
Institutions.
OR
Bachelor’s Degree in Library / Library and Information Science
from any recognised Institute/ University with 03 years experience
in the relevant field in a University / Research Establishment /
Central / State Govt. / PSU and Library of other autonomous
Institutions.
2. Knowledge of Computer Applications.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Age: No
Academic Qualification: Yes as at (column 7).
2 Years
i) 75% by promotion
ii) 25 % by direct recruitment failing which by deputation.

Promotion: Semi Professional Assistant with five years regular
service in Level 5through seniority-cum-fitness, subject to qualifying
in the Computer typing test failing which by deputation / direct
recruitment
Deputation: Employees of the Central/ State Government,
Autonomous or Statutory Organisation, PSU, University or recognised
research institution;
(i) Holding analogous post on regular basis in the parent cadre or
department.
(ii) With 5 years’ service rendered as Semi Professional Assistant in
the Level 5 or equivalent in the parent cadre or department.
(iii) Possessing the qualifications and experience prescribed for direct
recruitment under column 7.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

56

SEMI PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Semi Professional Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 5
Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment
32 Years
Qualifications:
Master’s Degree in Library Science and Information Science from any
recognised University/Institution
OR
Bachelor’s Degree in Library/ Library and Information Science from a
recognised Institute/ University with two years relevant experience in a
University/ Research Establishment / Central / State Govt./ PSU
Autonomous Institutions.
Whether Age and educational Age: No
qualifications prescribed for direct Academic Qualification: Yes
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether by 75% by Promotion failing which by direct recruitment.
direct recruitment or by promotion 25% by Direct Recruitment
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Promotion: Library Assistant with 5 years of regular service in Level 4.
promotion
/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion /
deputation /
absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

57

LIBRARY ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Library Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 4

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Age: No
Qualification: No. But must possess the qualification as indicated in
Column 11.

Selection
Not applicable in case of Direct Recruitment.
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

i)

Bachelor’s degree in Library & Information Science or
equivalent from a recognized University.
ii) Typing speed of 30 words per minute in English.
iii) Knowledge of Computer Applications.

2 Years
75% by promotion
25% by Direct Recruitment

Promotion: Library Attendant possessing 10+2 qualification or
equivalent and certificate in Library Science with five years regular
service in Level 1.

Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

58

LIBRARY ATTENDANT
1
2
3
4
5
6

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Library Attendant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 1

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
32 Years
Qualifications:

i) 10+2 or its equivalent examination from a recognized Board.
ii) Certificate course in Library Science from a recognized
Institution.
iii) One year experience in a University/ College/ Educational
Institution Library.
iv) Basic knowledge of computer applications.

2 Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

59

TECHNICAL OFFICER / MAINTANANCE ENGINEER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post(s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade
Pay
Whether selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Technical Officer / Maintanance Engineer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group ‘A’
Level 10
Not Applicable
40 Years
Qualifications:

(i) Master’s Degree with 55% marks in the relevant
subject.
(ii) 5 years’ experience of maintenance / operation of
sophisticated scientific Instruments in the Laboratory as
Senior Technical Assistant or equivalent.
OR
Researchers having 5 years experience of operation of
Sophisticated scientific Instruments in the Laboratory at
Post Doctoral Level will also be eligible.
The experience should be in University/ Research
establishment / Central / State Govt. / PSU and other
autonomous bodies or Private organization of repute
with annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or
more.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether age and educational
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether
by direct recruitment or by
promotion or by
deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/deputation/absorption
to be made
Composition of DPC or
Selection Committee

Not Applicable

Two Years
Direct Recruitment

NA

As per schedule II of these Rules.

60

SENIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post(s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Pay
Whether selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Whether age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by
promotion or by
deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/deputation/absorption
to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Senior Technical Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group ‘B’
Level 6
Non-Selection
Not Applicable for direct recruitment
35 Years
Qualifications:
Master’s Degree in the relevant subject with at least two years
experience in relevant field
OR
First Class Bachelor’s Degree in the relevant subject with
minimum five years of working and maintenance experience of
sophisticated scientific Instruments in the Laboratory. However,
the relevant subject will be as decided by the university as per the
functional requirement of the department concerned.
The experience should be in University/ Research establishment /
Central / State Govt. / PSU and other autonomous bodies or
Private organization of repute with annual turnover of at least
Rs.200/- Crores or more.
No

Two Years
75% by Promotion
25% by Direct Recruitment (based on written test and skill test)

Promotion: Technical Assistant with five years regular service in
the Level 5according to seniority-cum-fitness

As per schedule II of these Rules.

61

TECHNICAL ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Technical Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 5
Non Selection
Not Applicable in case of direct recruitment.
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor’s degree with minimum three years of working and
maintenance/ operation experience of Scientific Instruments in the
Laboratory. However, the relevant subject will be as decided by the
university as per the functional requirement of the department
concerned.
The experience should be in University/ Research establishment /
Central / State Govt. / PSU and other autonomous bodies or Private
organization of repute with annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores
or more.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

No

2 Years
75% by Promotion.
25% by Direct Recruitment (based on written test and skill test)

Promotion: Laboratory Assistant with five years of regular service in
Level 4 according to seniority-cum-fitness failing which by direct
recruitment/deputation
As per schedule II of these Rules.

62

LABORATORY ASSISTANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Laboratory Assistant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 4
Selection
Not Applicable for Direct Recruitment
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor’s degree with minimum two years of working and
maintenance experience of sophisticated scientific Instruments in the
Laboratory. However, the relevant subject will be as decided by the
university as per the functional requirement of the department
concerned.
The experience should be in University/ Research establishment /
Central / State Govt. / PSU and other autonomous bodies or Private
organization of repute with annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores
or more.

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Age: No
Academic Qualification: Yes
2 Years
25% by Promotion
75% by Direct Recruitment
.
Promotion:
Laboratory Attendant with eight years of regular service in Level 1 with
the requisite qualification prescribed at Col.No.7.
As per schedule II of these Rules.

63

LABORATORY ATTENDANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Laboratory Attendant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 1
Not Applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:
10+2 with Science stream from any recognized Central/ State Board
OR

10th Pass from any recognized Central/ State Board with Science as one of
the subjects and skill certificate programme in Laboratory Technology.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition
of
DPC
or As per schedule II of these Rules.
Selection Committee

64

1.

SYSTEM MANAGER / SENIOR SYSTEM ANALYST
Name of Post
System Manager / Senior System Analyst

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University

3.

Classification of the post

Group ‘A’

4.

Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 12
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection
Post

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

7.

Educational
qualifications
direct recruits

8.

Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions?

9.

Period of probation, if any.

10.

Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation.
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to
be filled by various methods.

11.

In case of recruitment by
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/
deputation/
absorption to be made.

12.

Composition of DPC
Selection Committee

or

Non-Selection Not Applicable
50 Years

and
other Qualification:
required for B.E./B.Tech.(Computer Science & Engineering) with at least
55% of marks and 9 years of experience of extensive
programming and System Management from a recognized
Public/PUS/Private organization.
OR
M.Sc. (Computer Science)/MCA/M.Tech.(Computer Science &
Engineering) with 55% of marks and 8 years’ experience of
extensive programming and system management from a
recognized Public/PUS/Private organization.

One Year

Deputation :
An Officer of Central Government, State Government, Union
Territories, Autonomous/ Statutory Organizations, PSUs,
Universities or recognized Research Institutions holding the
analogous post and pay in parent cadre of department.
OR
Having five years of experience in the above mentioned
organization in pay level 10/11 or equivalent on regular basis in
parent cadre or department.

or As per schedule II of these Rules.
65

SYSTEM ENGINEER / SENIOR MAINTENANCE ENGINEER
System Engineer / Senior Maintenance Engineer

1.
2.

Name of Post
Number of Post

3.

Classification of the post

4.

Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 12
Pay/Pay Level
Selection or Non-Selection Not Applicable
Post
Age limit for direct Recruits
50 Years

5.
6.
7.

8.

9.
10.

11.

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University
Group ‘A’

Educational
qualifications
direct recruits

and
other E.Q.:
required for B.E./B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering/
Electronics Engineering/M.Sc. Computer Science/MCA
with 07 years of experience.
OR
M.E./M.Tech.
in
Computer
Science
&
Engineering/Electronics Engineering with 05 years of
experience.
Experience: Experience should be at appropriate level in
industry / University level Computer Centre in the areas
of Servers configuration, storage systems, backup
systems, Linux/Unix Software Engineering, Design and
Validation, Databases, Computer Networks from a
recognized Public/PUS/Private organization.
Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions?
Period of probation, if any.
One Year
Method of recruitment whether
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to
be filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/
deputation/
absorption to be made.

Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation.

Deputation :
An Officer of Central Government, State Government,
Union Territories, Autonomous/ Statutory Organizations,
PSUs, Universities or recognized Research Institutions
holding the analogous post and pay in parent cadre of
department.
OR
66

12.

Composition of DPC
Selection Committee

Having five years of experience in the above mentioned
organization in pay level 10/11 or equivalent on regular
basis in parent cadre or department.
or As per schedule II of these Rules.

67

JUNION MAINTENANCE ENGINEER / NETWORKING ENGINEER
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.

9.
10.

11.

12.

Name of Post
Number of Post

Junior Maintenance Engineer / Networking Engineer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University
Classification of the post
Group ‘A’
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 10
Pay/Pay Level
Selection or Non-Selection Not Applicable
Post
Age limit for direct Recruits
40 Years
Educational
and
other Essential Qualification.:
qualifications required for (1) B.E./B.Tech. in Electronics & Communication
direct recruits
Engineering/Computer Science & Engineering
(2) 05 years‟ experience of Computer Network
administration and Computer hardware including
Massive UPS systems and Centralized Airconditioning Plants/ Computer Systems Management
and administration /Maintenance of a campus wide
large computer network preferably with fibre optic
backbone links from a recognized Public/PUS/Private
organization.
Desirable Qualification :
Experience of Industrial background.
Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions?
Period of probation, if any.
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to
be filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/
deputation/
absorption to be made.
Composition of DPC or As per schedule II of these Rules.
Selection Committee

68

SYSTEM ANALYST/ PROGRAMMER/COMPUTER PROGRAMMER/SYSTEM
PROGRAMMER
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Name of Post

System
Analyst/
Programmer/Computer
Programmer/System Programmer
Number of Post
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Classification of the post
Group ‘A’
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 10
Pay/Pay Level
Selection or Non-Selection Post
Not Applicable
Age limit for direct Recruits
40 Years
Educational
and
other Essential Qualification :
qualifications required for direct 1. B.E./B.Tech. in Computer Science & Engineering/Electronics
recruits
Engineering.
2. 05 years programming experience in in languages like
C/C++/JAVA etc. databases: MySQL/ORACLE with PHP etc.
Foundations and practices under WINDOWS/LINUX/UNIX
platforms from a recognized Public/PUS/Private organization.

OR
1. M.E./M.Tech. in Computer Science & Engineering/Electronics
Engineering/M.Sc. Computer Science/MCA.
2. 03 years’ programming experience in languages like
C/C++/JAVA etc. databases: MySQL/ORACLE with PHP etc.
Foundations and practices under WINDOWS/LINUX/UNIX
platforms from a recognized Public/PUS/Private organization.

8.

9.
10.

11.

12.

Whether age & educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions?
Period of probation, if any.
Method of recruitment whether by
direct
recruitment
or
by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion
/
deputation
/
absorption, grades from which
promotion/ deputation/ absorption
to be made.
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Two Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

69

SENIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (COMPUTER) / JUNIOR PROGRAMMER / ASSISTANT
PROGRAMMER
1.

Name of Post

Senior Technical Assistant (Computer)
Programmer / Assistant Programmer

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University

3.

Classification of the post

Group ‘B’

4.

Scale
of
Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 6
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection or Non-Selection Post

Not Applicable

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

35 Years

7.

Educational and other qualifications Essential Qualification :
required for direct recruits
(1)
B.E./B.Tech.
in
Computer
Science
&
Engineering/Electronics Engineering.
OR
M.C.A./M.Sc. in Computer Science
(2) 02 years programming experience in in languages like
C/C++/JAVA etc. databases: MySQL/ORACLE with PHP
etc.
Foundations
and
practices
under
WINDOWS/LINUX/UNIX platforms from a recognized
Public/PUS/Private organization.
Whether
age
&
educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions?

8.

9.

Period of probation, if any.

/

Junior

Two Years

10. Method of recruitment whether by Direct recruitment through Written Test and Skill Test (if
direct recruitment or by promotion or required)
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to be
filled by various methods.

11. In case of recruitment by promotion / Not Applicable
deputation / absorption, grades from
which
promotion/
deputation/
absorption to be made.

12. Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

70

TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (COMPUTER)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Technical Assistant (Computer)
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 5
Not applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualification :
i)

Bachelor‘s Degree in Engineering / Technology in Computer Science
and Technology / Information Technology from any recognized
University or Institute.
OR
Master’s Degree in Computer Science/Technology / MCA from any
recognized University / Institute.
ii) At least 02 years experience in relevant field in University/ Research
establishment / Central / State Govt. / PSU and other autonomous
bodies or Private organization of repute with annual turnover of at
least Rs.200/- Crores or more.

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for Not applicable.
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/
Not applicable.
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/
deputation/absorption to be
made
Composition of DPC or As per Schedule II of these rules.
Selection Committee

71

SUPERINTENDENT ENGINEER (CIVIL) / UNIVERSITY ENGINEER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Superintendent Engineer (Civil)/University Engineer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 13
Not Applicable
56 Years (for deputation)
Essential Qualifications:

i)

First Class Bachelor’s Degree in Civil Engineering from a
recognised Institute/ University or equivalent.

ii) 08 years of experience as Executive Engineer in the relevant field
from CPWD/State Government PWD services or similar organized
services/Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or Autonomous
organization/ University System or reputed private organizations
with an annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more
Desirable Qualifications:

i)

Experience in construction of projects of multi-storey
buildings
and
have
experience
in
planning/estimation/measurement/tendering as per the CPWD/
PWD norms. Good knowledge of CPWD manuals,
preparations/checking of estimates, drawings, structural
details, bill of quantities, substitute/deviation items statements
and other associated issues related with building and
constructions.
ii) Knowledge of Computer Aided Design (CAD) and latest
Management Technology/other relevant software.
8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
By Deputation or Appointment on Tenure basis.

Deputation: Officers holding analogous post or with 8 years
experience as Executive Engineer (Pay Level 11) or equivalent, in the
CPWD/ State Government PWD services or similar organized services/
Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or Autonomous Organisation/
University System:
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

72

EXECUTIVE ENGINEER (CIVIL)
1
2
3
4

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay

5

Whether Selection or
selection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
45 Years
Educational
and
other Essential Qualifications:
qualifications required for direct a) First Class Bachelor’s Degree in the Civil Engineering from a
recruits
recognised Institute/ University or equivalent.
b) 08 years of experience as Assistant Engineer in the relevant field
from CPWD/State Government PWD services or similar organized
services/Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or Autonomous
organization/ University System or reputed private organizations
with an annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more

6
7

Executive Engineer (Civil)
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 11(after 5 years of service as Executive Engineer with level 11, an
incumbent shall be assessed by the Departmental Promotion Committee –
DPC for moving to the level 12 in the same designation)
non- Not Applicable

Desirable Qualifications:
1. Experience in construction of projects of multi-storey buildings and
have experience in planning/estimation/measurement/tendering as
per the CPWD/ PWD norms. Good knowledge of CPWD manuals,
preparations/checking of estimates, drawings, structural details, bill
of quantities, substitute/deviation items statements and other
associated issues related with building and constructions.
2. Knowledge of Computer Aided Design (CAD) and latest
Management Technology/other relevant software.
8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/
deputation/absorption to be
made

Composition
of DPC
Selection Committee

Not Applicable

Two Years
By promotion failing which deputation/direct recruitment

Promotion: Assistant Engineer having degree relevant branch of
engineering with 08 years of regular services in the pay level 7based on
Seniority-cum-fitness from Assistant Engineers subject to fulfilment of
academic qualification mentioned at Column 7

Deputation: Officers holding analogous post or one below category with
3 years experience, in the CPWD/ State Government PWD services or
similar organized services/ Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or
Autonomous Organisation/ University System:
or As per schedule II of these Rules.

73

EXECUTIVE ENGINEER (ELECTRICAL)
1
2
3
4

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay

5

Whether Selection or
selection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
45 Years
Educational
and
other Essential Qualifications:
qualifications required for direct 1. First Class Bachelor’s Degree in Electrical Engineering from a
recruits
recognised Institute/ University or equivalent.
2. 08 years of experience as Assistant Engineer in the relevant field
from CPWD/State Government PWD services or similar organized
services / Semi Government / PSU / Statutory or Autonomous
organization/ University System or reputed private organizations
with an annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more

6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Executive Engineer (Electrical)
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 11 (after 5 years of service as Executive Engineer with level 11, an
incumbent shall be assessed by the Departmental Promotion Committee –
DPC for moving to the level 12 in the same designation)
non- Selection

Desirable Qualifications:
Experience in construction / maintenance of sub-stations/ multi-storey
buildings, distribution system and have experience in planning /
estimation / tendering as per the CPWD/ PWD norms. Good
knowledge of CPWD manuals, preparations/checking of estimates,
drawings, bill of quantities, substitute/deviation items statements and
other associated issues related with electrical installations.
Whether Age and educational Age: No
qualifications prescribed for Qualification: Yes(as at column 7)
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether By promotion failing which by Deputation / Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Promotion: Assistant Engineer having degree relevant branch of
promotion/
engineering with 08 years of regular services in the pay level 7 (GP
deputation/absorption,
grades 4600)based on Seniority-cum-fitness from Assistant Engineers subject to
from
which
promotion/ fulfilment of academic qualification mentioned at Column 7
deputation/absorption to be
made
Deputation: Officers holding analogous post or one below category with
3 years experience, in the CPWD/ State Government PWD services or
similar organized services/ Semi Government/ PSU/ Statutory or
Autonomous Organisation/ University System:
Composition
of DPC
or As per schedule II of these Rules.
Selection Committee

74

ASSISTANT ENGINEER(CIVIL / ELECTRICAL / MECHANICAL)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Assistant Engineer (Civil / Electrical / Mechanical)
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7
Selection

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled by
various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Age: No
Qualification: Yes as in (column.7)

35 Years
Qualifications:

i) First Class Bachelor’s Degree in relevant field from a
recognised Institute/ University or equivalent.
ii) Three years’ experience in the relevant field as Junior
Engineer or Equivalent in State Government PWD services
or similar organized services/ Statutory or Autonomous
organization/ University System or reputed private
organizations with an annual turnover of at least Rs.200/Crores or more.

Two Years
50% by direct recruitment
50% by promotion
NOTE: Wherever there is only one sanctioned post selection will be
made by direct recruitment.
Promotion: Five years of regular service as Junior Engineer having
degree in a relevant branch of engineering and technology; or 08 years
of regular service having diploma in engineering.
Deputation: Officers holding analogous post or one below category
with 3 years experience, in the CPWD/ State Government PWD
services or similar organized services/ Semi Government/ PSU/
Statutory or Autonomous Organisation/ University System:

Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

75

JUNIOR ENGINEER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Junior Engineer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6
Not Applicable

35 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor’s Degree of Engineering/Technology in relevant field from a
recognised Institute/ University with one year relevant experience
OR
Diploma in Engineering in the relevant field and three years’ experience
in relevant field in CPWD / State PWD or Similar Organised Services /
Statutory or Autonomous Organisations / Central / State Universities /
Autonomous Institutions or reputed Private construction company with an
annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions
Period of probation, if any
Two Years
Method of recruitment whether Direct Recruitment
by direct recruitment or by
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be
filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/
deputation/absorption,
grades
from
which
promotion/
deputation/absorption to be
made
Composition of DPC or As per schedule II of these Rules.
Selection Committee

76

HINDI OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Hindi Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – A
Level 10
Not Applicable
40 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Master’s Degree of a recognised University in Hindi with English as a
compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of examination at the
degree level;
OR
Master’s Degree of a recognized University in English with Hindi as a
compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of examination at the
degree level;
OR
Master’s degree of a recognised University in any subject other than
Hindi or English, with Hindi medium and English as a compulsory or
elective subject or as the medium of examination at the degree level;
OR
Master’s degree of a recognised University in any subject other than
Hindi or English. With English Medium and Hindi as a compulsory or
elective subject or as a medium of a examination at the degree level;
OR
Master’s Degree of a recognized University in any subject other than
Hindi or English, with Hindi and English as a compulsory or elective
subjects or either of the two as a medium of examination and the other
as a compulsory or elective subject at the degree level
AND
Three Years experience of using / applying terminology (terminological
work) in Hindi and translation work from English to Hindi or viceversa, preferably of technical or scientific literature under Central / State
Govt. / Autonomous Body / Statutory Organisation / PSU / Universities
or recognised research or educational institutes
OR
Three Years experience of teaching in Hindi and English or research in
Hindi or English under Central / State Govt./ Autonomous Body/
Statutory Organisations/ PSUs/ Universities or recognised research or
educational institutions.

Desirable Qualifications:
Studied one of the languages other than Hindi included in the 8th
schedule of the Constitution at 10th level from a recognised board.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment
direct
recruitment
or
by
77

11

12

promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

78

HINDI TRANSLATOR
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other qualifications
required for direct recruits

Hindi Translator
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6
Not Applicable
35 Years
Qualifications:
Master’s Degree of a recognised University in Hindi with English as a
compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of examination at the
degree level;
OR
Master’s Degree of a recognized University in English with Hindi as a
compulsory or elective subject or as the medium of examination at the
degree level;
OR
Master’s degree of a recognised University in any subject other than
Hindi or English, with Hindi medium and English as a compulsory or
elective subject or as the medium of examination at the degree level;
OR
Master’s degree of a recognised University in any subject other than
Hindi or English. With English Medium and Hindi as a compulsory or
elective subject or as a medium of a examination at the degree level;
OR
Master’s Degree of a recognized University in any subject other than
Hindi or English, with Hindi and English as a compulsory or elective
subjects or either of the two as a medium of examination and the other
as a compulsory or elective subject at the degree level
AND
Recognized Diploma or Certificate course in translation from Hindi to
English & vice versa or two years experience of translation work from
Hindi to English and vice versa in Central or State Government office,
including Government of India Undertaking.

Studied one of the languages other than Hindi included in the 8th
schedule of the Constitution at 10th level from a recognised board.
Whether Age and educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
2 Years
Method of recruitment whether by Direct Recruitment
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled by
various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee
79

HINDI TYPIST
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Hindi Typist
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 2

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

i. Bachelor’s Degree from a recognized University/ Institute.
ii. 30 words per minute in Hindi Typing Speed.
iii. Knowledge of Computer Applications

2 Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

80

SECURITY OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Security Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 7

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
35 Years
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor’s Degree from a recognized University/ Institution with five years
experience as Security Supervisor / Supervisory Position in Security in a
Govt. Office, Educational Institute / Private Organisation of repute with an
annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more
OR
Persons who have served in the Army or such Uniformed Service at JCO
level or equivalent or above, with 10th standard pass or Army class I
Examination or an equivalent examination.
AND

Holding a valid Driving License (LMV/ Motor cycle).
8

9
10

11

12

2 Years
Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation.

Deputation:
Officer from the Central/ State Govt./ Universities/ Other autonomous
organizations.
i. Holding analogous post on regular basis.
OR
ii. With three years regular service in the relevant field in the Level 6.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

81

ASSISTANT SECURITY OFFICER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Assistant Security Officer
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
35 Years
Qualifications:
Bachelor’s Degree from a recognized University/ Institution with five years
experience as Security Supervisor / Supervisory Position in Security in a
Govt. Office, Educational Institute / Private Organisation of repute with an
annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more
OR
Persons who have served in the Army or such Uniformed Service at JCO
level or equivalent or above, with 10th standard pass or Army class I
Examination or an equivalent examination.
AND

Holding a valid Driving License (LMV/ Motor cycle).
8

9
10

11

12

2 Years
Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation.

Deputation:
Officer from the Central/ State Govt./ Universities/ Other autonomous
organizations.
i. Holding analogous post on regular basis.
OR
ii. With three years regular service in the relevant field in the Level 5.
Composition of DPC or Selection As per schedule II of these Rules.
Committee

82

SECURITY INSPECTOR
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Security Inspector
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 5
Not Applicable
32
Essential Qualifications:
Bachelor’s Degree from a recognized University/ Institution with three
years’ experience as Security Supervisor / Supervisory Position in
Security in a Govt. Office, Educational Institute / Private Organisation
of repute with an annual turnover of at least Rs.200/- Crores or more.

OR
Persons who have served in the Army or such Uniformed service
with at least Class 10th standard pass or Army Class I
examination or an equivalent examination.
AND
Holding a valid Driving License (LMV / Motor cycle).
8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

2 Years
100% by Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

83

SECURITY ASSISTANT
1.

Name of Post

Security Assistant

2.

Number of Post

As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the
University

3.

Classification of the post

4.

Group ‘C’
Scale of Pay/Pay Band/Grade Level 2
Pay/Pay Level

5.

Selection
Post

or

Non-Selection Not Applicable

6.

Age limit for direct Recruits

7.

Educational
qualifications
direct recruits

32 Years.

and
other Essential Qualifications:
required for 1. Should have passed Intermediate examination from a
recognized examining body or an equivalent
qualification from an Army Establishment.
2. Should be an Ex-Army/Para-Military Personnel with
proper discharge certificate with Medical Category
“AYE‟ and Character “Very Good” or equivalent.

8.

Whether age & educational Not Applicable
qualifications prescribed for
direct recruits will apply in the
case of promotions?

9.

Period of probation, if any.

10.

Method of recruitment whether Direct recruitment through Written Test and Skill Test (if
by direct recruitment or by required)
promotion
or
by
deputation/absorption
and
percentage of the vacancies to
be filled by various methods.
In case of recruitment by Not Applicable
promotion / deputation /
absorption, grades from which
promotion/deputation/
absorption to be made.

11.

12.

Composition of DPC
Selection Committee

Two Years

or As per schedule II of these Rules.

84

GUEST HOUSE MANAGER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Guest House Manager
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – B
Level 6

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
35 Years

Essential Qualifications:
1. Bachelor’s Degree in Hotel Management or allied field from a
recognized University / Institution with one year relevant
experience
OR
Diploma in Hotel Management or allied field from a recognized
University / Institute with two years relevant experience
2. Knowledge of Computer applications

2 Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

85

COOK
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Cook
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 2

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not applicable.
32 Years
Qualifications:
1. 10thClass from a recognized Board.
2. ITI Trade certificate in Bakery and Confectionery (one year
duration)
3. 03 years experience in cooking / catering services in educational
institutions/ guest houses, at least 3 starred hotels or similar
organisations.

Two Years
Direct recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

86

KITCHEN ATTENDANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Kitchen Attendant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 1

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

Not Applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:
1. 10th Pass from any State/ Central School / Board.

OR
ITI Trade Certificate in the relevant trade.
2. Two years experience in cooking/ catering services in a
Canteen/ reputed Hotel/ Guest Houses of reputed
organizations/ University

2 Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

87

HOSTEL ATTENDANT
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade
Pay
Whether Selection or nonselection post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational and other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Hostel Attendant
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 1
Not Applicable
32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

(i) 10th Pass from any State/ Central School / Board
OR
ITI Pass

8

9
10

11

12

Whether Age and education
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

(ii) At least two years of experience in a Hostel / Canteen/ Hotel/ Guest
House etc.
Not Applicable

2 Years
Direct Recruitment

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

88

DRIVER
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

8

9
10

11

12

Name of Post
Number of Post (s)
Classification
Scale of Pay/Pay Band / Grade Pay
Whether Selection or non-selection
post
Age Limit for Direct Recruits
Educational
and
other
qualifications required for direct
recruits

Driver
As per UGC approved sanctioned strength of the University
Group – C
Level 2
Not Applicable

Whether Age and educational
qualifications prescribed for direct
recruits will apply in the case of
promotions
Period of probation, if any
Method of recruitment whether by
direct recruitment or by promotion
or by deputation/absorption and
percentage of the post to be filled
by various methods.
In case of recruitment by
promotion/ deputation/absorption,
grades from which promotion/
deputation/absorption to be made
Composition of DPC or Selection
Committee

Not Applicable

32 Years
Essential Qualifications:

(i) 10th Pass from any recognised Board
(ii) Possession of a Valid Commercial Driving License for Light/
Medium/ Heavy Vehicles issued by the Competent authority
having no adverse endorsement
(iii) Knowledge of motor mechanism (the candidate should be able
to remove minor defects in vehicles).
(iv) Experience of driving motor vehicles for at least 05 years in
an organization.

2 Years
Direct Recruitment through driving test, knowledge of traffic rules and
skill test.

Not Applicable

As per schedule II of these Rules.

*Note: For promotion to different higher grades of Driver, Staff car driver rules of GoI shall be
applicable.

89

